Title: Bootstrapping Inflationary Fluctuations
Abstract: In flat space, four point scattering amplitudes at weak coupling can be fully determined from Lorentz symmetry, unitarity and causality. The resulting scattering amplitude depends on model details only through coupling constants and the particle content of the theory. I will show how the analogous story works in the case of inflationary fluctuations. We found explicit expressions for inflationary three and four-point functions, whose shapes depend on the field content of the theory, and do not depend on the specific inflationary model, as long as the fluctuations minimally break de Sitter symmetry. This "cosmological bootstrap" is a first step towards classifying a large set of shapes of primordial non-gaussianity, which can be searched for in experimental data.

Title: Two Dimensional de Sitter Gravity
Abstract: In the first part of this talk, I will analyze two dimensional Jackiw- Teitelboim gravity with positive cosmological constant. I will study the no boundary wavefunction of the universe and comment on non perturbative effects. In the second part, I will explain the relevance of this previous analysis to the computation of the no boundary wavefunction in higher dimensional gravity. Based on recent work with J. Maldacena and Z. Yang.

Title: Lowering the melting temperature of holographic mesons by means of a strong magnetic field

Title: From Scattering Amplitudes to Classical Observables
Abstract: I present a formalism for computing classically measurable quantities directly from on-shell quantum scattering amplitudes. I will discuss the ingredients needed for obtaining the classical result, and show how to set up the calculation to derive the result efficiently. The formalism is not specific to a given theory, and is ultimately destined to be used for general relativity. In this talk, I will show two examples from spinless scattering in electrodynamics: the momentum transfer to next-to-leading order, and the momentum radiated to leading order.

Title: Shocks, Superconvergence, and a Stringy Equivalence Principle

Title: Black hole finite size effects, Hawking radiation, and binary inspirals
Abstract: I will discuss the tidal response from Schwarzschild black holes in classical and quantum gravity. Our analysis assumes that black holes obey the standard rules of quantum mechanics and of effective field theory, regardless of the specific UV completion of General Relativity. We find in particular that Hawking radiation induces a non-zero static tidal response (Love number) at fifth order in the post-Newtonian expansion. This effect is potentially testable in gravitational wave emission from black hole binary systems.

Title: A second lecture on Conformal Supergravity

Title: A lecture on Conformal Supergravity

Title: Searching for whispers from beyond the standard model
Abstract: Searches for high energy signatures from beyond the standard model physics have advanced greatly, but a lot of ground remains to be covered for soft, low energy signals. At the LHC, searches for long- lived particles are such an example, as qualitative gains are possible by making full use of the LHCb cavern in the phase II upgrade. In the context of dark matter direct detection, future single-phonon detectors will be sensitive to dark matter with a mass as low as roughly 10 keV.
In this regime, the conventional nuclear recoil picture no longer applies and new theoretical tools are needed to correctly compute the scattering rate. I will discuss the prospects for detector concepts based on superfluid helium and polar material targets, where in the latter case we find a large daily modulation of the scattering rate.

Title: Precision Physics for Sky Surveys
Abstract: Sky surveys in the coming decades hold exciting prospects for understanding the nature of dark matter, primordial fluctuations in the early universe, and gravitational wave sources. Precise predictions with controlled theoretical uncertainties will be crucial for meaningful interpretation of data. This situation presents an opportunity for particle physicists to make an impact through novel application of methods such as renormalization, effective field theory, and scattering amplitudes. I will describe how quantum field theory tools transplant to this new arena and how it enables precision physics in dark matter searches, large scale structure surveys, and gravitational wave astronomy.

Title: Fundamental Constraints for Fundamental Theories
Abstract: As our understanding of the universe and its fundamental building blocks extends to shorter and shorter distances, experiments capable of probing these scales are becoming increasingly difficult to construct. Particle physics faces a potential crisis: an absence of data at the shortest possible scales. Yet remarkably, even in the absence of experimental data, the requirement of theoretical consistency puts stringent constraints on viable models of fundamental particles and their interactions. In this talk I'll discuss a variety of criteria that have the possibility to address questions such as: What low energy theories admit consistent UV completions? Which massive particles are allowed in an interacting theory? Is string theory the unique weakly-coupled UV completion of General Relativity?

Title: Hydrodynamics of Entanglement
Abstract: The time evolution of entanglement entropy in highly exited states of chaotic quantum systems provides insight both into the process of thermalization, and through the gauge/gravity duality into black holes in quantum gravity. Most conventional methods are not applicable to this problem. In this talk, I present an effective theory for entanglement dynamics akin to hydrodynamics. I derive this theory in the special case of chaotic gauge theories dual to gravity in AdS spacetime, and present strong evidence that is valid for any chaotic system. I discuss the interplay between the effective theory and chaotic operator growth. I conclude with some outstanding problems this new theory may help to solve.

Title: Novel Tools in Effective Field Theory: From Quantum Chromodynamics to Dark Matter
Abstract: Effective field theory (EFT) provides an efficient framework for describing physical systems using operator techniques and power expansions. In this talk I will discuss my development of several new EFT tools that have allowed for the description of systems which simultaneously involve dynamics at multiple scales, and the calculation of subleading power gauge theory cross sections for processes that do not admit a local operator product expansion. These advances have made an impact on the current high energy physics experimental program, where they have enabled innovative search techniques for new physics at the Large Hadron Collider, and a precise interpretation of searches for Dark Matter in the Galactic Center.

Title: Unraveling the Structure of Dark Matter throughout Cosmic History
Abstract: There is overwhelming evidence for the existence of dark matter. It plays a crucial role in the formation of structure in the Universe, yet little is known about its properties beyond gravitational effects. In this talk, I will discuss the current and future prospects of understanding the fundamental nature of dark matter using observations in cosmology and astrophysics. These observations offer glimpses into different cosmic eras that may shed light on the mystery of dark matter.

Title: Solvable sectors in conformal field theory and applications to holography
Abstract: Conformal Field Theory (CFT) is a framework used for describing physical systems with no intrinsic length or energy scale. CFTs have wide applicability across theoretical physics, ranging from water or magnets at criticality to the low-energy dynamics of extended objects in string theory. In most cases of interest, the CFTs describe strongly-correlated systems and can only be studied numerically. Nevertheless, I will explain how, in certain cases, one can also find analytically solvable sectors. I will then describe how these solvable sectors can be used in combination with other tools, such as conformal bootstrap, to enhance our knowledge of holography, and ultimately of quantum gravity.

Title: Two applications of the infrared factorization of IR dynamics.
Abstract: I will review a proof of factorization of the dynamics of infrared gravitons, that uses canonical transformations and is particularly well suited to studying the evolution of local operators in the Heisenberg picture. Working with operators instead of states, makes it possible to define Lorentz transformations that commute with infrared gravitons. If these transformations could be promoted to proper unitary transformations on states, they would solve an old "problem" in GR, that is the non uniqueness of the Lorentz group of asymptotically flat spacetime. Canonical transformations can be also defined in a collapse black-hole geometry. They will be used to compute exactly the interaction of Hawking quanta with soft gravitons in the limit that back-reaction on the metric can be neglected.

Title: Soft gravitational radiation from high energy collisions: a progress report
Abstract: I will review recent developments on soft gravitational radiation from ultra-relativistic collisions. Calculations based on recent developments in the eikonal approach and in soft-graviton theorems will be compared. We find excellent agreement (in their common region of applicability) and are led to predict an unexpected bump in the spectrum of the gravitational energy flux at wavelengths comparable to the impact parameter of the collision.

Title: Anomaly Inflow for M5-branes wrapping a Riemann Surface
Abstract: In this talk we discuss the 't Hooft anomalies for theories on the world volume of M5-branes wrapping a punctured Riemann Surface. We show how to compute them from the geometric setup in M-theory by using anomaly inflow. In particular, we explain how the boundary data for the M5-branes at the punctures is encoded onto the M-theory geometry. This allows for a derivation of the contributions to the anomalies from the punctures. We also discuss the relations between the inflow setup and holography.

Title: Applying scattering amplitude methods to state-of-the-art calculations for LIGO.
Abstract: We harnesses powerful tools from the modern amplitudes program, such as generalized unitarity and the double-copy construction, which relates gravity integrands to simpler gauge-theory expressions, to obtain scattering amplitudes in the classical limit. Adapting methods for integration and matching from effective field theory, we extract the conservative Hamiltonian for compact spinless binaries through the third post- Minkowskian order. This gives the most accurate two-body Hamiltonian to date. These results are currently under study by the LIGO/Virgo collaboration to assess their impact on constructing templates for identifying gravitational wave events.

Title: Photon Masses in the Landscape and Dark Photon Dark Matter.
Abstract: In effective field theory, spin-1 particles can have two kinds of masses, Stückelberg masses or masses arising from the Higgs mechanism. In the first half of the talk I will clarify the distinction between the two types and argue that a version of the Weak Gravity Conjecture places strong constraints on Stückelberg masses. I will comment on implications for the mass of the Standard Model photon and for dark photons. In the second half of the talk I will discuss a new cosmological mechanism for populating dark photon dark matter, which operates by storing energy in an axion field that efficiently converts into dark photons.

Title: Constructing multi-loop scattering amplitudes with manifest singularity structure

Title: Scattering amplitudes, bootstrap, and supersymmetric localization
Abstract: In this talk, I will connect three topics: supersymmetric localization, bootstrap, and scattering amplitudes in string theory and M-theory. In particular, I will explain how one can rederive the first few terms in the small momentum expansion of string theory and M-theory graviton scattering from CFT results. I will also explain how our knowledge of closed string scattering amplitudes and supersymmetric localization can be combined to give new results for the 4-point function of conformal primary operators in 4d N=4 super- Yang-Mills theory and in ABJM theory at strong coupling.

Title: Holography and Siegel paramodular forms
Abstract: We will discuss the application of Siegel paramodular forms to the counting of BPS states in symmetric product orbifold CFTs. There are five special examples for which we provide exact analytic counting formulas for their polar states. Their crucial feature is that the low energy spectrum is very sparse, which suggests the existence of a suitable dual supergravity theory. These examples open a path to novel realizations of AdS_3/CFT_2.

Title: 't Hooft Defects, Monopole Bubbling, and SQM Localization
Abstract: 't Hooft defect are a good probe of non-perturbative phenomena in quantum field theories. In 4D N=2 supersymmetric gauge theories, we can exactly compute their expectation value using tools such as localization, spectral networks, and AGT techniques. From this we can learn about phenomena such as wall crossing of framed BPS states and monopole bubbling. However, the expectation value of 't Hooft defects computed using localization does not always match the result computed by other techniques. In this talk we will examine this flaw and discuss its physical interpretation and resolution.

Title: Entanglement Branes, Modular Flow, and Extended TQFT

Title: A Positive Sum Rule for the Central Charge in 4D Conformal Field Theory
Abstract: The central charge c of a 4D conformal field theory (CFT) characterizes the scale (dilatation) anomaly of the theory, and appears as the coefficient of logarithmic terms in momentum space correlation functions of the energy-momentum tensor. By studying the CFT contribution to 4-point graviton scattering amplitudes in Minkowski space we derive a sum rule for c in terms of TTO OPE coefficients, where O is any operator in the theory. The sum rule can be thought of as a version of the optical theorem, and its validity depends on the existence of the massless and forward limits of the <TTTT> correlation functions that contribute. The finiteness of these limits is checked explicitly for free scalar, fermion, and vector CFTs. The sum rule gives c as a sum of positive terms and therefore implies a lower bound on c given any lower bound on TTO OPE coefficients. We compute the coefficients to the sum rule for arbitrary operators of spin 0 and 2, including the energy-momentum tensor.

Title: Holographic symplectic forms and a CFT prescription to compute extremal volumes
Abstract: In this talk, I will present a new entry in the AdS/CFT dictionary: the bulk symplectic form between nearby semi-classical geometries is dual to a quantum Kahler form on the space of CFT sources. I will derive this relation and discuss one particular application of it: a CFT prescription to compute extremal volumes in the bulk. This talk will be based on Arxiv:1806.10144 as well as work in progress.

Title: On the phase diagram of SU(N)XSU(N) gauge theory with bifundamental Fermion
Abstract: We study the phase diagram of SU(N)XSU(N) gauge theory with massive bifundamental Fermion at zero temperature. Assuming that the theory is confining and gapped, some constraints that come from anomalies can be put on the phase diagram as a function of the two theta- angles. We combine these constraints with computations that are valid in the large mass and small mass limits to construct the phase diagram also for intermediate mass.

Title: Light-Ray Operators and the BMS Algebra
Abstract: Light-Ray Operators are non-local operators that are supported along null lines in Minkowski space. A prominent example is the average null energy operator which has positive matrix elements in any quantum field theory. I will discuss some basics of these operators and show that, together with light-ray versions of other Poincare generators, they satisfy a universal algebra. This light-ray algebra contains the generalized BMS algebra which has recently played a prominent role in soft theorems.

Title: The Large Charge Expansion and the Universal Correlation Functions in Rank-1 SCFT

Title: Stability and the Gauge Problem in Early-Universe Cosmology
Abstract: In this talk, I will describe newly discovered, smooth, non-singular bounce solutions. In particular, I will focus on how adapting insights and tools from mathematical relativity has been crucial for these constructions and why it will also be a central focus looking ahead.

Title: Quantum Gravity in a Finite Box
Abstract: Gravity in a finite region, with Dirichlet boundary conditions at the walls, is a peculiar theory, with potentially dangerous gravitational screening effects. This problem can be studied in AdS/CFT as a deformation of the CFT by an irrelevant operator. I will describe how to calculate n-point correlation functions in this duality, then explore the question of gravitational screening, and connect to recent discussions of the averaged null energy condition.

Title: Extending the Double Copy
Abstract: Discussion on two recent papers on the double copy. In the first part of the talk I will recap work extending the classical double copy correspondence to maximally symmetric curved spacetimes. I will describe how to construct the corresponding single and zeroth copies in asymptotically (A)dS spacetimes in Kerr-Schild form, and will clarify the interpretation of these copies using several examples, pointing out some peculiar features. In the second part of the talk, I will introduce Galileon fields, and will discuss how to generalize and extend the procedure relating gauge and gravity theories through color-kinematics replacements by showing that the classical perturbative double copy of pions corresponds to special Galileons. I will also show how to construct the single copy by mapping the bi-adjoint scalar radiation to the non-linear sigma model radiation through generalized color-kinematics replacements.

Title: Chiral SU(3) SQCD3 and N=2 mirror symmetry
Abstract: Recently a very interesting three-dimensional N=2 supersymmetric theory with SU(3) global symmetry was discussed by several authors. The latter was conjectured to have two dual descriptions, one with explicit supersymmetry and emergent flavor symmetry and the other with explicit flavor symmetry and emergent supersymmetry. We discuss a third description of the model which has both flavor symmetry and supersymmetry manifest. We then investigate models which can be constructed by using this theory as a building block gauging the global symmetry and paying special attention to the global structure of the gauge group. We conjecture several cases of N=2 mirror dualities involving such constructions with the dual being either a simple N=2 Wess-Zumino model or a discrete gauging thereof.

Title: A massive class of N=2 AdS4 IIA solutions

Title: Unitarity cuts and loop amplitudes in QCD and supersymmetric theories
Abstract: In the study of multi-loop scattering amplitudes, the method of generalized unitarity cuts has been very successful in the construction of loop integrands. Very recently, progress has also been made on the front of loop integration. We present the first calculation of a 2-loop QCD amplitude relevant for LHC physics using numerical unitarity, by deriving integration-by-parts relations from the geometry of unitarity cut surfaces. As another application, we calculate the "leading transcendental" part of the 5-loop UV divergence of N=8 supergravity, in an effort to test various proposals about the UV behavior of the theory. Surprisingly, dual conformal symmetry, most studied as a hidden symmetry of N=4 SYM, gives additional insights into loop integrals even in QCD, because the geometry of the unitarity cut surface is not sensitive to the matter content. As a side product, we find hints of an analog of dual conformal symmetry in the nonplanar sector of N=4 SYM.

Title: Quantum Closed Superstring Field Theory and the Weil-Petersson Symplectic Geometry
Abstract: String field theory is the refined definition of string theory, formulated in the language of quantum field theory. Unlike the conventional Polyakov approach, it provides a well defined prescription for computing the scattering amplitudes in string theory, even when there is mass renormalization and quantum corrections to the background. Since, string field theory is based on an action, it also has the potential to open the door towards the nonperturbative regime of string theory. Unfortunately, the biggest problem of closed string field theory is that simple tools for performing calculations are not readily available. In this talk, I shall a discuss a calculable realization of closed superstring field theory formulated by exploring the significant progress in the Weil-Petersson geometry of the moduli space of Riemann surfaces in recent years.

Title: Spacetime Has a "Thickness"
Abstract: Suppose we assume that our theory of quantum gravity respects causality; i.e. signals do not propagate faster than light. Then we argue that the information paradox can be resolved only if spacetime has an additional attribute, which we call 'thickness' or 'depth'. In other words, spacetime is not just a manifold with a shape; there is an additional parameter which starts becoming relevant as we reach the threshold of horizon formation.

Title: Soft Graviton Theorem in a Generic Quantum Theory of Gravity
Abstract: We analyze scattering amplitudes with one soft external graviton and arbitrary number of other finite energy external states carrying arbitrary mass and spin to sub-subleading order in the momentum of the soft graviton. Our result can be expressed as the sum of a universal part that depends only on the amplitude without the soft graviton and not the other details of the theory and a non-universal part that depends on the amplitude without the soft graviton, and the two and three point functions of the theory. For tree amplitudes our results are valid in all space-time dimensions while for loop amplitudes, infrared divergences force us to restrict our analysis to space time dimensions five or more. With this restriction the results are valid to all orders in perturbation theory. Our results agree with known results in quantum field theories and string theory.

Title: Complexity in Holography and QFT
Abstract: I will review the concept of quantum complexity of a state and the related holographic conjectures. I will discuss certain properties of holographic complexity, namely, the structure of divergences, the complexity of forming a thermal state, and the time dependence of complexity. I will then move to the QFT side and describe our proposal for defining the complexity in free scalar field theories for Gaussian states based on the Fubini-Study metric. This gives rise to a beautiful geometric picture where circuits are represented as trajectories on a product space of hyperbolic planes with minimal complexity circuits corresponding to geodesic lines. Despite working with quantum field theories far outside the regime where Einstein gravity duals exist, we find striking similarities between our results and the two holographic complexity proposals. If time permits, I will describe additional developments related to the complexity of thermofield double states and its time dependence.

Title: Holography for Yang-Mills solitons
Abstract: I describe an extension of the original defect AdS/CFT correspondence to multiple D5-branes probing a near-horizon AdS_5 x S^5 geometry. In an appropriate regime of parameters, the physics of the open string modes on the D5-branes is well described by a six-dimensional supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory on rigid AdS_4 x S^2. This theory has an intricate vacuum structure and a rich class of BPS equations describing finite-energy soliton configurations. Holography provides a new approach to studying boundary value problems for these equations, which are of the generalized self-duality type and include the Haydys-Witten and extended Bogomolny equations. This talk is based on work done in collaboration with Sophia Domokos.

Title: Anomalies for 4d SCFTs from M5-branes
Abstract: Many interesting, generically strongly-coupled 4d superconformal field theories can be obtained by compactifying the 6d (2,0) theories on a punctured Riemann surface. As we review, various amounts of supersymmetry can be preserved in 4d depending on the partial topological twist over the surface. We consider the structure of 't Hooft anomalies in these theories when the Riemann surface has punctures that preserve N=2 supersymmetry, and explain how these anomalies can be derived from the parent 6d theory. When the 6d (2,0) theory has a description in terms of M5- branes, we explain how anomaly inflow for the M5-branes in the presence of a puncture on the Riemann surface leads to new terms in the M5-brane anomaly polynomial, which then contributes to the anomalies of the low energy 4d theory.

Title: Non-supersymmetric conformal manifolds and constraints on the CFT data
Abstract: We discuss the constraints satisfied by a conformal field theory which is part of a conformal manifold. Using conformal perturbation theory, we obtain a sum rule from which one can extract restrictions on the spectrum of low spin operators and on the behavior of OPE coefficients involving nearly marginal operators. We then consider large N conformal field theories admitting a gravity dual description. We combine conformal perturbation theory and loop expansion in the bulk to search for conformal manifolds beyond the leading order in large N. These results do not rely on supersymmetry, and therefore apply also outside the realm of superconformal field theories.

Title: Embedding 3d Bosonization into String Theory
Abstract: A holographic construction will be presented that allows to realize the building blocks of the recently established rich web of bosonization dualities in 2+1 dimensions into string theory.

Title: Dimensions of Coulomb branch operators at all ranks
Abstract: It has been known for more than 20 years that in 4 space-time dimensions low energy N=2 supersymmetry only permits 8 possible scaling dimensions for Coulomb branch operators for rank-1 conformal field theories. We show how to compute this spectrum of dimensions for arbitrary rank. For each rank it is a finite set of rational numbers. We also discuss the challenges that local operator methods (e.g., the conformal bootstrap) face in trying to reproduce this spectrum.

Title: Non-linear gravity from CFT entanglement
Abstract: I will describe a unifying framework for three related results. I will first explain the emergence of non-linear gravitational dynamics from the entanglement structure of a conformal field theory. I'll then discuss the related issue of finding the correct prescription for computing holographic entanglement entropy in theories of higher curvature gravity. Finally, I will describe the correspondence between CFT relative entropy and gravitational canonical energy.

Title: Dimension 6 operators in the Standard Model Effective Theory and Holomorphy
Abstract: I will summarize recent results on dimension-six operators in the Standard Model, and their impact in searches for new physics. I will discuss an interesting holomorphic structure in the anomalous dimensions of these operators reminiscent of supersymmetry, even though the SM is not supersymmetric.

Title: Spontaneous CP breaking and the axion potential: an effective Lagrangian approach
Abstract: After a quick review of the U(1) and strong-CP problems in QCD I will turn to some recent work on spontaneous CP violation in QCD at vacuum angle $\theta = \pi$ and to its possible relevance for determining the axion potential at temperatures up to the deconfinement temperature $T_c$. Using an effective Lagrangian approach, valid in the double large-N and chiral limit (with $r_i \sim m_iN /\Lambda$ fixed), we determine the regions in the multidimensional parameter space of the $r_i$ where CP is spontaneously broken/unbroken at $\theta=\pi$. The two regions are separated by an hypersurface on which lines of first order transitions end, there is a massless pseudoscalar meson (in spite of chiral symmetry being explicitly broken), and the topological susceptibility of QCD diverges. When we add to the model a generic axion field (in order to ensure CP at all values of $\theta$) the above considerations have a bearing on the shape of the axion potential near the boundary of its periodicity interval. This may have implications on the calculation of axionic dark matter abundance if some $r_i$ have a marked temperature dependence as one approaches $T_c$.

Title: Dual Space-time of the SYK Model
Abstract: We argue that the SYK model leads to a three dimensional dual theory in a suitable background. At strong coupling, a Horava-Witten compactification of one of the dimensions reproduces the SYK spectrum exactly, and a non-standard propagator of the 3D theory reproduces the two point function of the bilocal fields exactly. Furthermore, this three dimensional picture reproduces the leading finite coupling correction to the "zero mode" contribution. However the space-time on which the bilocal fields live should not be identified with the dual space-time in the sense of AdS/CFT duality - rather the bilocals are related to the dual fields by an integral transform.

Title: Loop induced inflationary non-Gaussianites that give rise to enhanced galaxy bias at small wave-vectors
Abstract: Since galaxies do not trace the mass the power spectrum (i.e. the Fourier transform of the spatial two point correlation) for fluctuations in the number density of galaxies can be very different from that of the mass. In particular it can be dramatically enhanced at low wave- numbers. It is possible that these enhancements will be observed in upcoming large scale galaxy surveys. In an inflationary cosmology these enhancements are known to arise from tree-level Feynman diagrams that are calculated in de-Sitter space. I review this effect and then show that a similar enhancement can arise from loop diagrams.

Title: Color-Kinematics Duality for Fundamental Matter at Two-Loops
Abstract: The inclusion of fundamental matter in (supersymmetric) gauge theories allows for the construction of pure (super)gravity amplitudes via the double-copy. The unwanted states at the gravity side are canceled out by a double-copy of the fundamental matter states. I will discuss efficient methods for the computation of two-loop amplitudes in the BCJ-representation for N=1 and N=2 SQCD in four dimensions and present results for these theories as well as for the corresponding gravity theories.

Title: SIMPs and ELDERs: New Ideas for Dark Matter
Abstract: Dark Matter could reside in a hidden sector with gauge structure similar to the Standard Model. In particular, the hidden sector may include a non-Abelian gauge interaction with confinement scale around 100 MeV, similar to our QCD. Dark mesons, counterparts of the usual pions, kaons etc., can then play the role of dark matter. Such particles may experience strong number-changing self-interactions, similar to the 2K<->3pi scattering familiar in QCD. Intriguingly, such self-interactions can naturally produce a thermal relic abundance of dark mesons consistent with observations. In this talk we will explore two variations of this basic scenario, "Strongly-Interacting Massive Particle" (SIMP) and "Elastically-Decoupling Relic" (ELDER). We will discuss the basic features of each scenario, explicit models in which they may be realized, and their experimental signatures.

Title: Fine-Grained Chaos in AdS2 Gravity
Abstract: Quantum chaos can be characterized by an exponential growth of the thermal out-of- time-order four-point function up to a scrambling time uˆ∗. We discuss generalizations of this statement for certain higher-point correlation functions. For concreteness, we study the Schwarzian theory of a one-dimensional time reparametrization mode, which describes AdS2 gravity and the low-energy dynamics of the SYK model. We identify a particular set of 2k-point functions, characterized as being both "maximally braided" and "k-OTO", which exhibit exponential growth until progressively longer timescales uˆ(k)∗=(k-1)uˆ∗. We suggest an interpretation as scrambling of increasingly fine-grained measures of quantum information, which correspondingly take progressively longer time to reach their thermal values.

Title: Spectrum universality properties of holographic Chern-Simons theories
Abstract: We give a master formula for the spin-2 spectrum of a class of three-dimensional Chern-Simons theories at large $N$, with flavour group containing SU(3), that arise as infrared fixed points of the D2-brane worldvolume field theory and have AdS$_4$ duals in massive type IIA supergravity. We use this formula to compute the spin-2 spectrum of the individual theories, discuss its supermultiplet structure and, for an ${\cal N}=2$ theory in this class, the spectrum of protected operators with spin 2. We also show that the trace of the Kaluza-Klein graviton mass matrix on the dual AdS$_4$ solutions enjoys certain universality properties. These are shown to relate the class of AdS$_4$ massive IIA solutions under consideration to a similar class of AdS$_4$ solutions of $D=11$ supergravity with the same symmetries. Finally, for the ${\cal N}=2$ AdS$_4$ solution in this class, we study the entire spectrum at lowest Kaluza-Klein level and relate it to an analogue solution in $D=11$ supergravity.

Title: Massive AdS Gravity, Holography and String Theory
Abstract: After briefly reviewing some facts about the Higgsing of gravity, I will describe a class of AdS4 vacua of string theory in which the lowest-lying graviton is massive, and derive a universal formula for its mass. This is a (top-down) example of massive gravity in an ultraviolet complete theory.

Title: A 5d Superconformal Odyssey
Abstract: Interacting conformal field theories are notoriously difficult to study in dimensions greater than four. In this talk, I will discuss some recent work, in which we explicitly derive novel ways to extract interesting data of five-dimensional superconformal field theories from supersymmetric localization using conformal perturbation theory, thereby discovering a new superconformal anomaly. I will then outline how some of these general results can be applied to the conformal bootstrap in five dimensions and statements in holography.

Title: Unifying Super-Amplitudes in Six Dimensions: The Tree Level S-Matrix of D-Branes, M-Branes, Yang-Mills, and Gravity
Abstract: In the last 15 years, our understanding of scattering amplitudes in Yang-Mills and gravity has dramatically increased, in part due to the introduction of Witten's seminal Twistor String. This computes n-point tree amplitudes in N=4 SYM by integrating over the moduli space of n-punctured Riemann spheres, interpreted as connected B-model D-instantons supported on curves in super- twistor space. In this talk I describe how to lift this construction to six spacetime dimensions to describe the scattering of massless particles in 6D theories with maximal supersymmetry. An n-point amplitude is now computed by integrating over the punctured sphere supported on connected curves in the appropriate 6D spinor helicity superspace, which may have (1,1), (2,0), or (2,2) supersymmetry. The complete tree level S-matrix of the (abelian) D5 and M5-brane effective field theories with (1,1) and (2,0) super-Poincare symmetry is presented in this connected form. 6D Maximal super Yang-Mills proves to be much more challenging, and we ultimately find the n-point amplitudes by enlarging the space of curves to consider and introducing new worldsheet redundancies. A standard KLT/double-copy argument leads one to a formula for (2,2) SUGRA amplitudes. Time permitting, we will discuss various applications, including 5d theories, massive 4d N=4 theories, and the challenges of a nonabelian (2,0) theory of multiple M5-branes.

Title: Bootstrapping 5-loop p-Integrals
Abstract: Computing higher loops Feynman Integrals is not an easy task. In this talk I will present a method we developed to obtain expansions of massless two-point integrals in position space by exploiting the constraints implied by symmetries of the asymptotic expansion of conformal four-point integrals and IBP identities. Together with parametric integration of few integrals, we are able to fix the expansions of 170 genuine five-loop master integrals. In particular we computed the expansions of all planar master integrals up to transcendental weight 9.

Title: Protected couplings and BPS black holes
Abstract: After compactification on a thermal circle, BPS black holes in dimension D yield BPS instantons in dimension D-1. Thus, BPS saturated couplings in the low energy effective action in dimension D-1 conveniently encode BPS black hole degeneracies. I will demonstrate this connection in the case of R^4 and D^4 R^4 couplings in string vacua with 32 supercharges, and F^4, D^2 F^4 couplings in string vacua with 16 supercharges, all of which can be deternined exactly using constraints from U-duality and supersymmetry. In particular, the D^2 F^4 couplings provide a new point of view on the celebrated DVV formula counting BPS dyons in D=4.

Title: Pitting Weyl against Conformal Invariance in Quantum Field Theory: Does Conformal imply Weyl Invariance?
Abstract: We investigate the problem of the enhancement of conformal invariance in flat spacetime to Weyl invariance in curved spacetime. We restrict attention to all unitary quantum field theories and put forward a compelling argument for the statement that for all spacetime dimensions d ≤ 10, conformal invariance in flat spacetime implies Weyl invariance in a general curved background metric. In addition, we examine possible curvature corrections to the Weyl transformation laws of operators and show that these corrections are in fact absent for sufficiently low operator dimension and spin. In particular, we demonstrate this for an important class of operators, namely relevant scalar operators in d ≤ 6, and find that the Weyl transformations of these operators are the standard ones. Moreover, we find a class of consistent 'anomalous' curvature corrections proportional to the Weyl (Cotton) tensor in d > 3 (d = 3) spacetime dimensions. The arguments rely on algebraic consistency conditions reminiscent of the famous Wess-Zumino consistency conditions employed for the classification of Weyl anomalies. We anticipate that they can be extended to higher spacetime dimensions and for more general operators at the price of higher algebraic complexity.

Title: Aspects of Supersymmetric Field Theories in Curved Space
Abstract: Theories of Extended Supergravity have a superconformal formulation up to N=4. In the simplest N=1 case we give the local expression of the Supercurrent conservation. The latter is inherited from a curved superspace identity which is the supersymmetric version of the covariant conservation of the Einstein tensor of General Relativity.

Title: Entanglement branes in a two-dimensional string theory
Abstract: There is an emerging viewpoint that classical spacetime emerges from highly entangled states of more fundamental constituents. In the context of AdS/CFT, these fundamental constituents are strings, with a dual description as a large-N gauge theory. To understand entanglement in string theory, we consider the simpler context of two-dimensional large-N Yang-Mills theory, and its dual string theory description due to Gross and Taylor. We will show how entanglement in the gauge theory is described in terms of the string theory as thermal entropy of open strings whose endpoints are anchored on a stretched entangling surface which we call an entanglement brane.

Title: Vortices in 4d, N=2 SQCD and their Worldsheet Theory from Supersymmetric Localization
Abstract: I will describe work in progress, with Avner Karasik and Zohar Komargodski, in which we use supersymmetric localization techniques to study the low-energy dynamics of BPS vortex-strings in 4d, N=2 supersymmetric QCD. The theories that we study have a moduli space of BPS-vortices, and the low energy fluctuations around a stable vortex solution are captured by a two-dimensional N=(2,2) theory on the worldsheet of the vortex. We propose a prescription for extracting the two-sphere partition function of the worldsheet theory from the four-sphere partition function of the four-dimensional parent theory. We use this prescription to extract information on the worldsheet theory in cases that were not discussed in the literature, and to discuss the existence of a two-dimensional effective description when the bulk theory is not gapped.

Title: 3-fold canonical singularity and 5d N=1 SCFT
Abstract: We conjecture that M theory on 3-fold canonical singularity defines a 5d N=1 SCFT. Various physical quantities such as flavor symmetry, Coulomb branch structure and prepotential, etc. are computed using the geometry of singularity.

Title: Causality and Universality at Strong Coupling
Abstract: Causality imposes constraints on perturbative effective field theory, which have played a role in understanding scattering amplitudes, the a-theorem for renormalization group flows, and higher curvature corrections in quantum gravity. I will describe similar constraints on strongly interacting theories. In one limit, these constraints imply the averaged null energy condition, which links causality to the inequalities obeyed by quantum information. Then, in large-N conformal field theory, I'll describe how causality tightly constrains the stress tensor correlation functions, and points directly toward the emergence of Einstein gravity in the holographic dual.

Title: AdS4 black holes from M-theory
Abstract: This talk deals with AdS black holes arising as solutions of four dimensional supergravity admitting an embedding in M-theory. Supersymmetric AdS4 black holes with spherical horizon were discovered quite recently and have lately attracted some attention, given that their entropy was successfully reproduced via the computation of the twisted Witten index in ABJM theory. After reviewing recent progress in the analysis of supersymmetric and non supersymmetric configurations, I will discuss some ongoing work on a class of new solutions arising from M-theory on 7d Sasaki-Einstein coset manifolds. Such thermal black holes are characterized by charged scalars and massive vector fields. The analysis of the stability of probes in such a background gives insight on the possible existence of stable of multi-center black holes in anti-de Sitter, relevant for the holographic description of the glass phase transition.

Title: Logarithmic Corrections to Black Hole Entropy
Abstract: Logarithmic corrections to black hole entropy offer a robust intrared window into ultraviolet structure of quantum black holes. We study these corrections for Kerr-Newman black holes embedded in N=2 supergravity and show that logarithmic corrections simplify greatly even when the black holes do not preserve any supersymmetry. The result can be recast as the vanishing of the trace anomaly c=0 in 4D supergravity.

Title: Phases and RG flows of 4d (susy) gauge theories
Abstract: Supersymmetry provides a handle for gaining insights into the dynamics of quantum field theory. I will review some exact results and dualities for four dimensional N=1 supersymmetric theories, such as super-QCD, and variants with additional, other matter representations. Most of the talk will be based on work with Emily Nardoni, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1604.04294.pdf
We discuss aspects of theories with superpotentials that are given by Arnold's ADE singularities, and the resulting RG flows and IR theories.

Title: The twisted superpotential of 3d N=2 theories
Abstract: We consider the effective twisted superpotential of 3d N=2 gauge theories compactified on a circle. This is a rich, duality-invariant observable which encodes much of the protected information in these theories. We review its properties, and survey some applications, including deriving the quantum algebra of Wilson loop operators, computing a wide class of supersymmetric partition functions, and studying the reduction of 3d dualities to two dimensions.

Title: Understanding Chiral Gauge Theories via Extra Dimensions
Abstract: I discuss a recent proposal for nonperturbatively regulating chiral gauge theories, a long-standing problem in quantum field theory that may have implications on Standard Model physics and beyond. Using the lattice as the regulator, the proposal involves coupling five-dimensional domain wall fermions to four-dimensional gauge fields that obey a gradient flow equation in the extra dimensions. In the limit of an infinite extra dimension, exactly massless modes are localized on the boundary of the space. Modes on one boundary couple in gauge fields in the conventional manner, while fermions on the other wall couple only to the gauge and possibly topological degrees of freedom of the gauge field. As these couplings may persist after renormalization, the mirror partners of Standard Model fermions may not simply be lattice artifacts, but actually be physically observable. After explaining the proposal, including the question of gauge anomalies, I touch briefly upon the possible phenomenological implications of these mirror partners.

Title: Recent progress on gravitational bremsstrahlung from transplanckian-energy collisions
Abstract: Computing gravitational bremsstrahlung from ultra-relativistic collisions has long been a challenging problem both analytically and numerically. I will report on progress made on this issue in the last couple of years and show how a purely classical treatment and a completely different S-matrix approach precisely agree (in the appropriate limit for the latter) to leading order in the gravitational deflection angle. I will also comment on a recent claim by Dvali et al. on the total graviton multiplicity in such collisions and end up with presenting some open problems.

Title: Constraining effective actions via scattering amplitudes
Abstract: I will discuss how the consistent conditions arising from scattering amplitudes can be utilized for constraining low-energy effective actions. In particular in this talk I will focus on the effective action of N=4 super Yang-Mills theory on the Coulomb branch. The constraints from supersymmetry as well as (broken) conformal symmetry allow us to obtain new non-renormalization theorems. I will also discuss scale invariance v.s. conformal symmetry in this context.

Title: Black Holes and Thermoelectric Transport
Abstract: Wilsonian effective field theory in the vacuum has been well-understood for decades. Much less is known of the general principles for effective field theory in mixed states, that is, within the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism. In this talk I will describe recent progress in understanding the microscopic symmetries of Schwinger-Keldysh effective field theories with an emphasis on theories in thermal states. These symmetries include BRST-like supersymmetries which account for topological limits of Schwinger-Keldysh theories. As an application I will show how the theory of relativistic hydrodynamics arises directly from an effective action, replete with the positivity of local entropy production.

Title: Holography and the tuning of the cosmological constant

Title: Exceptional vs superPoincaré algebra as the defining symmetry of maximal Supergravity
Abstract: I will discuss exceptional symmetries in maximally supersymmetric supergravity theories. I do it in the light-cone gauge formulation where only the physical degrees of freedom are present. In d=4 both the maximal supersymmetry and the E_7 symmetries are symmetries of the Hamiltonian and both can be used to find the Hamiltonian. When we lift the theory to d=11 we find that again both symmetries are seemingly present but it takes field redefinitions to see them both. I will also show that E_8 is also spanned by the supermultiplet and should also be a symmetry of the maximally supersymmetric supergravity theories in any dimension.

Title: Schwinger-Keldysh fluid dynamics
Abstract: Wilsonian effective field theory in the vacuum has been well-understood for decades. Much less is known of the general principles for effective field theory in mixed states, that is, within the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism. In this talk I will describe recent progress in understanding the microscopic symmetries of Schwinger-Keldysh effective field theories with an emphasis on theories in thermal states. These symmetries include BRST-like supersymmetries which account for topological limits of Schwinger-Keldysh theories. As an application I will show how the theory of relativistic hydrodynamics arises directly from an effective action, replete with the positivity of local entropy production.

Title: Five-dimensional gauge theory via holography
Abstract: String theory and brane dynamics suggest the existence of five-dimensional superconformal fixed points which are gauge theories without Lagrangian description. Holography offers a perspective on these mysterious theories when the gauge group has high rank. In this talk, I will construct exact Type IIB supergravity solutions with 16 conformal supersymmetries and space-time of the form $AdS_6 \times S^2$ warped over a Riemann surface $\Sigma$ with boundary, and relate the structure of these solutions to five-dimensional gauge dynamics.

Title: Mellin space analytic bootstrap for O(N) models
Abstract: We apply the analytic conformal bootstrap ideas in Mellin space to conformal field theories with an O(N) symmetry. We focus on the generic four point Mellin amplitude of scalars in the fundamentals of O(N) in s, t, u channel and isolate the contribution which is inconsistent with the OPE. Demanding the cancellation of these OPE-offending terms gives constraints on the operator dimension and the OPE coefficient. We solve the constraint equations to compute the anomalous dimension and the OPE coefficients of scalar and higher spin exchange operators appearing in the singlet, symmetric traceless and antisymmetric sector of the O(N) representation in d=4-epsilon and the large N limit in general dimension. This allows us to reproduce the known results as well as obtain new results for O(N) models.

Title: Spectral Weight in Holographic Superfluids
Abstract: The spectral weight is an important and interesting field theoretic quantity. It directly counts the number of degrees of freedom at a given momentum. Therefore, calculating a nonzero value for the spectral weight at low energy and over a finite range of momenta is a signature of a Fermi surface. In a previous work, we calculated the low energy spectral weight for a semi-local quantum liquid in a holographic setting, and discovered that it was nonzero over a finite range of momenta. We attributed this Fermi surface behavior to the charges existing behind the black hole horizon. In this work, we calculate the spectral weight for a holographic superfluid. One would expect to find zero spectral weight in this situation, since here the bulk charges are in front of the horizon and manifestly form a condensate. Surprisingly, we find a result to the contrary, which raises interesting questions about bulk degrees of freedom and/or the connection between the bulk and boundary charge distributions. We interpret these results and give directions for future work.

Title: Studying IR Dynamics with Conformal Truncation
Abstract: Any quantum field theory can be thought of as arising from a perturbed UV conformal field theory, suggesting that information about the full RG flow is encoded in the original CFT. I will discuss ongoing work developing new methods for extracting this information to study strongly-coupled IR dynamics. This method uses a UV basis of conformal Casimir eigenstates to construct the Hamiltonian, which is then truncated at some maximum Casimir eigenvalue and diagonalized to approximate the low energy spectrum of the IR theory. After presenting a general framework which can be applied to CFTs in any number of dimensions, I will then focus on the specific example of scalar field theory, which can be used to study strongly-coupled systems like the 2D and 3D Ising models.

Title: The Slq(2) Extension of the Standard Model II

Title: The Minimal Supersymmetric Inflationary Model (MSIM)
Abstract: We consider minimal supersymmetric models of inflation with broken supersymmetry described by constrained super fields. The minimal supergravity model with linearly realized supersymmetry contains in the spectrum, after super-Higgs effect, GR coupled to a massive gravitino, a sgoldstino, the inflaton and its super partners, the sinflaton and the inflatino. In the non linear model only the spin 3/2 gravitino and the spin 0 (real) inflaton coupled to GR in a FLRW Universe remain in the spectrum with a scalar potential suitable for inflation.

Title: Chaos in Matrix Models and Black Hole Evaporation
Abstract: Is the evaporation of a black hole described by a unitary theory? In order to shed light on this question - especially aspects of this question such as a black hole's negative specific heat - we consider the real-time dynamics of a solitonic object in matrix quantum mechanics, which can be interpreted as a black hole (black zero-brane) via holography. We point out that the chaotic nature of the system combined with the flat directions of its potential naturally leads to the emission of D0-branes from the black brane, which is suppressed in the large N limit. Simple arguments show that the black zero-brane, like the Schwarzschild black hole, has negative specific heat, in the sense that the temperature goes up when it evaporates by emitting D0-branes. While the largest Lyapunov exponent grows during the evaporation, the Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy decreases. These are consequences of the generic properties of matrix models and gauge theory. Based on these results, we give a possible geometric interpretation of the eigenvalue distribution of matrices in terms of gravity. 
Applying the same argument in the M-theory parameter region, we provide a scenario to derive the Hawking radiation of massless particles from the Schwarzschild black hole. Finally, we suggest that by adding a fraction of the quantum effects to the classical theory, we can obtain a matrix model whose classical time evolution mimics the entire life of the black brane, from its formation to the evaporation.

Title: Black Holes, Holography and Quantum Gravity in Three Dimensions
Abstract: The AdS/CFT correspondence is a powerful tool in the study of quantum gravity. For gravity in 2+1 dimensions this duality can be made quite precise: it relates AdS quantum gravity to solvable conformal field theories, such as the one which governs the critical point of the 2d Ising model. This allows us to address basic questions about the landscape of possible theories of quantum gravity, and to understand whether it is necessary to include complicated degrees of freedom - such as those coming from string theory - in order to obtain a consistent theory of quantum gravity. This setup also provides a calculable framework for the study of black hole quantum mechanics. For example, the counting of black hole microstates is related to intersection theory on the moduli space of Riemann surfaces.

Title: A Stereoscopic Look into the Bulk
Abstract: What natural CFT quantities can "see" in the interior of the bulk in a diffeomorphism invariant way? And how can we use them to learn about geometry and local bulk physics? To answer these questions we will construct a class of simple non-local operators on both sides of the duality and demonstrate their equivalence. On the CFT side, these non-local operators are identified with what we will call "OPE blocks": individual conformal family contributions to the OPE of local operators. In AdS, they are represented, at leading order in N, as integrals of bulk fields along geodesics/minimal Surfaces - a construction reminiscent of the Ryu-Takayanagi relation. Our findings add a new entry to the holographic dictionary whose potential we will exemplify via a number of applications. We will utilize it to revisit the CFT reconstruction of local bulk operators and illustrate how various independent AdS/CFT results, i.e. conformal blocks from geodesic Witten diagrams, linearized Einstein's equations from 1st law of entanglement entropy, readily follow from our formalism. Of pivotal importance in our construction is the idea of kinematic space and the tools of integral geometry.

Title: Grassmannian Geometry of Scattering Amplitudes
Abstract: The past several years have been witness to an ongoing revolution in our understanding of (perturbative) quantum field theory. In particular, a concrete proposal now exists for how to reformulate any theory recursively-without any reference to virtual particles, gauge redundancies, or any of the other unphysical baggage that so complicates computation within the traditional formalism. In addition to greatly simplifying the work involved, the recursive reformulation provides an important connection between field theory and the geometry (and combinatorics) of certain subspaces of the Grassmannian-a connection that has proven extremely fruitful for both physics and mathematics in recent years. Because both sides of this connection are greatly simplified (and best understood) in the case of planar, maximally supersymmetric Yang-Mills, this will be the primary example discussed. I will provide a broad introduction to these ideas, starting from basic principles of quantum mechanics alone. No prior familiarity with supersymmetric theories or Grassmannian geometry will be assumed.

Title: The quest for precision in particle physics
Abstract: Sometimes one encounters physical systems which behave more simply than expected. I will discuss a surprising way in which this applies to elementary particles at the shortest of distances. Their interactions, as described with great accuracy and success by the Standard Model of particle physics, are being intensely scrutinized by a joint effort of collider experimentalists and theorists. In this talk I will tell the story of how, from a theorist's perspective, this quest for precision is revealing new structures that are beginning to change the way we think about elementary particles.

Title: Entanglement, Gravity, and Quantum Information
Abstract: Over the last few years it has become increasingly clear that there is a deep connection between fundamental physics and quantum information. The connection goes back to the remarkable discovery that black holes carry entropy with an amount given by the horizon area. I will present new evidence that this is only the tip of the iceberg, and prove that a similar area law applies to more general Renyi entanglement entropies. To demonstrate the simplicity of my prescription, I will use it to provide the first holographic calculation of the mutual Renyi information between two disks of arbitrary dimension. I will comment on the prospect of verifying this area law experimentally in light of recent advances in measuring Renyi entropies. Furthermore, I will provide quantum corrections to the area law and use it to solve a long-standing problem in quantum gravity: what region of the dual spacetime is described by a subregion in a holographic theory? The answer to this question lies in a new perspective that I will advocate: holography is a quantum error correcting code.

Title: Measuring Quantum Information Scrambling
Abstract: This talk is concerned with two ideas: that black holes can be viewed as highly entangled quantum information processing devices and that there exist fundamental bounds on the dynamics of quantum field theories. These two ideas are connected by holographic duality which relates quantum gravity and quantum field theory. I will first review how ideas of quantum entanglement, quantum information scrambling, and computational complexity have contributed to our understanding of black holes. Then I will argue that a natural next step is to begin testing these ideas in the lab using recent advances in the coherent manipulation of quantum many-body systems. Focusing on information scrambling, I will present an experimental proposal, feasible with existing technology, to measure so-called out-of-time-order correlations which probe information scrambling. I will then discuss broadly what we can learn about quantum field theory and quantum gravity using such measurements.

Title: Negative Energy and the Focussing of Light Rays
Abstract: In any quantum field theory, the energy flux at a point of spacetime can be negative. This would produce a repulsive gravitational field causing nearby light rays to defocus. This in turn threatens to produce a variety of exotic phenomena including traversable wormholes, warp drives, time machines, and evasion of singularity theorems. I will describe a new "quantum focussing conjecture" that prevents such pathologies. In the flat spacetime limit it reduces to a novel lower bound on the energy density, which can be proven for several classes of field theories.

Title: Microscopic Structure of Black Holes
Abstract: Ever since Hawking's seminal work leading to the black hole information paradox various attempts to resolve the deep conflict between general relativity and quantum mechanics have been made. Black holes provide an ideal playground for attempting to unmask the secrets of quantum gravity and as such are key protagonists in my work. To resolve the information paradox it has been argued that quantum gravity effects must destroy the classical black hole horizon and replace it by horizon-sized structure.
While rather bold, this claim is supported in string theory whose very ingredients - branes, topology and fluxes - can be used to build such black hole microstates. In a toy model of gravitational collapse, I will argue that these microstate geometries can arise dynamically from quantum tunneling processes and that these effects can stop the collapse to a black hole. Holography provides another tool to study the microscopic description of black holes and my recent work provides a new approach to understanding the conjectured duality between Kerr black holes and conformal field theories. The tools I have used in this work allow to envision the extension of our results to highly-rotating Kerr black holes, and the exploration of possible gravitational wave signatures of the new physics at the horizon we are finding.

Title: Bulk Locality and Quantum Error Correction in AdS/CFT
Abstract: Perhaps the most basic mystery of AdS/CFT is how a theory in d dimensions can be equivalent to a theory in d+1 (or higher) dimensions. In this talk I will present several algebraic paradoxes that sharpen this puzzle, and then explain how they can be resolved via the theory of quantum error correction. In their resolution it is essential that one side is gravitational while the other is not. This leads to a new interpretation of AdS/CFT as a quantum error correcting code, with the algebra of bulk effective field theory being realized only on a protected subspace of states. I will present an exactly soluble discrete model of the correspondence that illustrates these ideas explicitly.

Title: The Slq(2) Extension of the Standard Model II

Title: Spherically Symmetric Kerr-Schild Metrics and the Classical Double Copy
Abstract: In the last 20 years the amplitudes program has had success at revealing hidden structures in perturbative gauge theories that are not obvious in a local Lagrangian formulation. One notable example is the BCJ duality and perturbative double copy, which states that the n-point graviton amplitude can be derived from the n-point Yang-Mills one. A natural question to ask is does this perturbative duality manifest itself in other aspects of the theories? Recent work suggests the classical solutions of Gravity and Electromagnetism exhibit similar double copy structure. Specifically, there is a mapping between Kerr-Schild metrics and E&M vector potentials that is reminiscent of the perturbative double copy. I will review this "Classical Double Copy", extend it to the class of spherically symmetric systems and relate the sources on either side of the double copy. I will also show that the double copies of spherically symmetric charge distributions do not always satisfy the energy conditions.

Title: Interpreting Cosmic Ray Signals "Energy-peak" Way
Abstract: It has been shown that the energy distribution of the massless decay product from the 2-body decay of a scalar or unpolarized mother particle has a peak, whose location is identical to the fixed energy of that particle in the rest frame of the corresponding mother particle although its underlying boost distribution is unknown. In this talk, I will discuss how this observation can be applied to anomalous excesses in cosmic ray measurements, having dark matter interpretation in mind, together with several concrete examples such as the Galactic Center GeV excess, line-like gamma-ray excesses, and MeV-range gamma-ray signatures under the dynamical dark matter framework. I will also briefly discuss distinctive morphological features of the relevant cosmic ray energy spectra, which can used for unveiling the details of underlying dark matter scenarios.

Title: Supersymmetric flavors on curved space and a precision test of AdS/CFT
Abstract: Quantum field theory on curved space has long been studied for its interesting phenomenology, and more recently as a means to obtain exact results in supersymmetric theories. In this talk I will describe the holographic duals for N=4 SYM coupled to massive N=2 flavors on AdS_4 and S^4, which reveals an interesting phase structure in both cases. I will discuss a topology-changing phase transition for S^4 and - to test probe-brane constructions as an extra ingredient in AdS/CFT - confront holographic computations with exact field theory results obtained using supersymmetric localization.

Title: Cosmological constraints on Dark Matter properties
Abstract: We show that dark matter abundance and inflationary scale could be intimately related. Standard Model extensions with Higgs mediated couplings to new physics typically contain extra scalars whose excursions at the end of inflation can be very large. If their coupling to the Standard Model is weak, they will not thermalize and may easily constitute too much dark matter. As an example we consider Standard Model extended by a real singlet scalar and a singlet fermion. We discuss the field dynamics during inflation together with the post-inflationary dark matter production mechanisms and derive stringent constraints on viable mass scales and coupling values.

Title: Far-from-equilibrium dynamics of a strongly coupled non-Abelian plasma with non-zero charge density or external magnetic field
Abstract: Using holography, we study the evolution of a spatially homogeneous, far from equilibrium, strongly coupled N=4 supersymmetric Yang-Mills plasma with a non-zero charge density or a background magnetic field. This gauge theory problem corresponds, in the dual gravity description, to an initial value problem in Einstein-Maxwell theory with homogeneous but anisotropic initial conditions. We explore the dependence of the equilibration process on different aspects of the initial departure from equilibrium and, while controlling for these dependencies, examine how the equilibration dynamics are affected by the presence of a non-vanishing charge density or an external magnetic field. The equilibration dynamics are remarkably insensitive to the addition of even large chemical potentials or magnetic fields, the equilibration time is set primarily by the form of the initial departure from equilibrium. For initial deviations from equilibrium which are well localized in scale, we formulate a simple model for equilibration times which agrees quite well with our results.

Title: New Developments for Scattering Amplitudes
Abstract: In this talk I will discuss two branches of scattering amplitudes which have seen major developments in recent years. Firstly I will elaborate on Integrand Reduction techniques for multi-loop integrals and how they can be applied to the Color-Kinematic duality and secondly how these integrals can be computed by the method of differential equations, which recently has been stimulated by new ideas. I will conclude each part by a series of examples where these techniques have been applied. 

Title: Looking for the origin of astrophysical neutrinos
Abstract: IceCube neutrino telescope recently discovered astrophysical neutrinos in the energy range from 10 TeV to 3 PeV. This discovery challenged existed theoretical models due to unexpected observation of soft 1/E^{2.5} neutrino spectrum. Together with limits from diffuse gamma-ray flux measured with Fermi LAT this excluded most of existed theoretical predictions. In my talk I'll review theoretical models, which can explain observed data both with Galactic and extra-galactic sources of neutrinos. I'll present model, which at the same time explain Ultra-High Energy Cosmic Ray protons, astrophysical neutrinos and diffuse gamma-ray background.

Title: Black hole microstate counting using pure D brane systems
Abstract: Exact results for the BPS index are known for a class of BPS dyons in type II string theory compactified on a six dimensional torus. In this work we set up the problem of counting the same BPS states in a duality frame consisting of only D branes. We explicitly count the number of states for a few small charges. For lowest possible charges we find agreement with the result obtained in other duality frames. Furthermore, we find that after factoring out the supermultiplet structure, each of these states carry zero angular momentum. This is in agreement with the prediction obtained from a representation of these states as supersymmetric black holes. It would be tempting to conjecture that even for higher charges all microstates carry zero angular momentum in this duality frame. To check this, we consider some other small charges and again get only zero angular momentum states. However for these charges our results seem to differ from the existing results by small amounts. We examine possible sources of this discrepancy.

Title: Modular forms and black hole entropy
Abstract: We will utilize modular invariance of (d+1)-dimensional conformal field theories to argue that the logarithm of the partition function transforms as the absolute value of a modular form of weight d-1. We will use this property to derive a generalized Cardy formula which relates the asymptotic degeneracy of states to the vacuum energy of the theory. After a few checks of the formula, we will use it to reproduce the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy of large AdS-Schwarzschild black holes (plus logarithmic corrections), boosted AdS-Schwarzschild black branes, and large AdS-Kerr black holes with arbitrary angular velocities. These calculations provide a microscopic count of the states of a large class of higher-dimensional black holes. If time permits, we will provide extensions of this framework to theories with conserved U(1) charges and which violate hyperscaling.

Title: Modular Properties of superstring scattering amplitudes
Abstract: The talk will present an overview of some perturbative and non-perturbative features of superstring scattering amplitudes, which involve interesting connections with automorphic forms, as well as with multiloop amplitudes in highly supersymmetric quantum field theory.

Title: Emergent symmetries and 4D-2D relations for confining large N gauge theories
Abstract: The large N limit of confined-phase 4D gauge theories is a free limit in terms of the physical degrees of freedom, glueballs and mesons. I'll review some reasons to suspect that there may be interesting emergent symmetries organizing the spectrum of these free theories, and explain a special setting in which the spectrum can be explored analytically. Focusing on non-supersymmetric gauge theories with massless adjoint matter, mostly in a solvable limit enabled by an S^3 compactification, I'll discuss evidence for emergent symmetries in the large N limit. An initial hint that something curious is going on is furnished by some surprising correlations between the bosonic and fermionic spectra of some non-supersymmetric large N theories. In exploring this we found that the partition functions of 4D large N theories have an unexpected modular structure. These modular properties suggest a relation between 4D large N confining theories with adjoint matter and certain 2D CFTs. 

Title: Twistor methods for superconformal blocks
Abstract: Conformal blocks are fundamental ingredients in the CFT bootstrap program. They encapsulate the contribution of a primary operator and all its descendants to a particular four-point function, but computing them is a challenge, especially in supersymmetric CFTs. I will discuss recent efforts using twistors to develop a simplified, covariant framework for computing conformal blocks in four-dimensional CFTs with N-extended supersymmetry. This framework has enabled the computation of new superconformal blocks.

Title: Shape dependence and RG flow of entanglement entropy
Abstract: I will describe the results of two recent papers on entanglement entropy (EE). In the first paper we study the shape dependence of EE. We start with rotational/translational symmetric entangling surfaces and slightly deform them, and we compute the resulting corrections to the EE. These symmetric surfaces extremize the universal EE. In the second paper we study EE on the d-sphere, when the entangling surface is a (d-2)-sphere. In this setup the modular Hamiltonian and EE can be computed analytically in terms of the VEV of the energy-momentum tensor. We discuss applications to RG flows and c and F-theorems in d dimensions.

Title: The Holographic Entropy Cone
Abstract: We initiate a systematic enumeration and classification of entropy inequalities satisfied by the Ryu-Takayanagi formula for conformal field theory states with smooth holographic dual geometries. For 2, 3, and 4 regions, we prove that the strong subadditivity and the monogamy of mutual information give the complete set of inequalities. This is in contrast to the situation for generic quantum systems, where a complete set of entropy inequalities is not known for 4 or more regions. We also find an infinite new family of inequalities applicable to 5 or more regions. The set of all holographic entropy inequalities bounds the phase space of Ryu-Takayanagi entropies, defining the holographic entropy cone. We characterize this entropy cone by reducing geometries to minimal graph models that encode the possible cutting and gluing relations of minimal surfaces. We find that, for a fixed number of regions, there are only finitely many independent entropy inequalities. To establish new holographic entropy inequalities, we introduce a combinatorial proof technique that may also be of independent interest in Riemannian geometry and graph theory.

Title: Gravity as the square of Yang-Mills
Abstract: A recurring theme in the attempts of understanding the quantum theory of gravity is the idea of "Gravity as the square of Yang-Mills". This involves the tensoring of the multiplet content of two super-Yang-Mills theories to obtain the multiplet content of a supergravity theory. A complete understanding of this correspondence requires studying how both global and local symmetries originate from the corresponding Yang-Mills factors. In the first part of the talk I will show how we can construct the global (U-duality) supergravity symmetries out of the corresponding global Yang-Mills ones (R-symmetries) in all spacetime dimensions between 3 and 10. In the second part I will demonstrate how the local symmetries of the gravity theory (in linearised approximation) can also be derived from local gauge invariance of the Yang-Mills factors. This will be done through a specific example in 4 spacetime dimensions.

Title: Ghost free and singularity free theory of gravity
Abstract: I will construct the covariant formulation of ghost free infinite derivative theory of gravity. I will discuss Wald's entropy, non singular blackhole and non singular cosmological solutions, and quantum aspects of ultraviolet improved gravity.

Title: Conformal Invariance in Momentum Space
Abstract: Position space analysis provides strong constraints on the form of correlation functions in conformal field theories. In the talk I will concentrate on the analysis carried out in momentum space. I will present a novel approach, which allows to solve conformal Ward identities directly in momentum space. In particular (almost) elementary expressions for 3-point functions involving stress energy tensor, conserved currents and various scalar operators can be derived. Then, I will discuss renormalization issues and the emergence of associated (new) anomalies. Finally, I will show a relation to the holographic renormalization and discuss a possibility for a dimensional renormalization in the context of AdS/CFT.

Title: String Universality for Permutation Orbifolds
Abstract: The hypothesis that every theory of quantum gravity in AdS_3 is a dimensional reduction of string/M-theory leads to a natural conjecture for the density of states of two dimensional CFTs with a large central charge limit. I will prove this conjecture for 2D CFTs which are orbifolds by permutation groups. In particular, I will characterize those permutation groups which give CFTs with well-defined large N limits and can thus serve as holographic duals to bulk gravity theories in AdS_3. I will then show that the holographic dual of a permutation orbifold will have a Hagedorn spectrum in the large N limit. This is evidence that, within this landscape, every theory of quantum gravity with a semi-classical limit is a string theory.

Title: Localizing gravity on branes in infinite spaces
Abstract: Attempts to achieve a localization of gravity on a braneworld hypersurface embedded in an infinite transverse spacetime have fallen short of what might be desired, for various reasons. There have even been no-go theorems claiming the impossibility of localizing constructions made using just accepted elements of string or M theory. The talk will present a resolution of this problem based upon a hyperbolic solution of type IIA theory and a superposed NS-5 brane. Gravity is bound to the brane surface owing to the existence of a single normalizable bound state of the transverse space Laplacian. The existence of this bound state is related to an asymptotic conformal symmetry in the related Schrödinger problem, a structure that has a history in quantum mechanics going back to the 1950s.

Title: Topology and holographic entanglement entropy
Abstract: The Ryu-Takayanagi prescription gives a striking relationship between quantum mechanics and geometry, equating entropy of entanglement in holographic field theories with the area of a minimal surface. It has been known for some time that a restriction on the topology of the minimal surface is required for consistency. I'll describe how this 'homology constraint' follows, under appropriate assumptions, from a Euclidean quantum gravity derivation of the holographic entanglement entropy formula, and what this teaches us about the subtleties of the replica trick in holography.

Title: Nilpotent Superfields, Born-Infeld Duality and Supersymmetry Breaking
Abstract: We discuss new types of Born-Infeld Actions based on N=2 Special Geometry and Superpotential terms derived from N=2 Fayet-Iliopoulos terms. These nonlinear actions originate by integrating out N=1 chiral multiplets so that the original N=2 Supersymmetry is partially broken to N=1. In this limit nilpotent constraints arise. More general non linear actions involving p-forms and D-p forms in D dimensions are also presented.

Title: Quench dynamics in confined 1+1-dimensional systems
Abstract: I will present a new approach for analytically investigating the post-quench dynamics of confined 1+1-dimensional systems. Certain types of such systems have been shown not to thermalize after a quench, and I will explain how the absence of thermalization follows from this CFT-based approach. I will demonstrate the validity of this framework and its usefulness for realistic systems by modeling the split-momentum quench of the Kinoshita, Wenger, and Weiss [Nature 440, 900 (2006)] experiment and obtaining qualitative agreement with the experimental results. This agreement calls attention to the connections between integrability and conformal field theory and the extent to which a system whose post-quench dynamics are near-integrable may be analyzed by an application of boundary CFT techniques.

Title: New frontiers in particle physics
Abstract: I will discuss new tools, new searches, and a new proposal for an experiment to look for standard model physics and beyond. Among the topics covered are: new observables associated with anomalies in B-mesons decays; new searches with neutrino beam experiments to look for new weak interactions; a new tool to help discriminate resonances decaying hadronically against background at the LHC; and a proposal for a new experiment to look for milli-charged particles and mirror forces at high energy colliders.

Title: A WIMP view of particle dark matter: from data analysis to theoretical models
Abstract: The astroparticle experiments have reached unprecedented sensitivities, releasing constantly suggestive hints and stringent constraints that seem to chase each other. Considering as an example the direct dark matter detection data, I will show how uncertainties affect the theoretical interpretation of these bounds/hints. These results serve as guidelines for dark matter model building. I will discuss how inference of the properties WIMPs can be enhanced by the complementarity of dark matter searches and LHC and what are the consequences for theoretical motivated dark matter models. A particular focus will be on supersymmetric models in which the sneutrino can be the dark matter candidate. I will close on predictions and expectations for detection in a relatively close future.

Title: The Unnatural Composite Higgs
Abstract: Composite Higgs models can trivially satisfy precision-electroweak and flavour constraints by simply having a large spontaneous symmetry breaking scale, f > 10 TeV. This produces a 'split' spectrum, where the strong sector resonances have masses greater than 10 TeV and are separated from the pseudo Nambu-Goldstone bosons, which remain near the electroweak scale. Even though a tuning of order 0.01% is required to obtain the observed Higgs boson mass, the big hierarchy problem remains mostly solved. Intriguingly, models with a fully-composite right-handed top quark also exhibit improved gauge coupling unification. By restricting ourselves to models which preserve these features we find that the symmetry breaking scale cannot be arbitrarily raised, leading to an upper bound f < 1000 TeV. This implies that the resonances may be accessible at future colliders, or indirectly via rare-decay experiments. Dark matter is identified with a pseudo Nambu-Goldstone boson, and we show that the smallest coset space containing a stable, scalar singlet and an unbroken SU(5) symmetry is SU(7) / SU(6) x U(1). The colour-triplet pseudo Nambu-Goldstone boson also contained in this coset space is metastable due to a residual symmetry. It can decay via a displaced vertex when produced at colliders, leading to a distinctive signal of unnaturalness. We discuss current and future collider searches for this triplet, and the possibility to distinguish this framework from similar split Supersymmetric models.

Title: Searching for Supersymmetry, Natural or Not
Abstract: The LHC has placed strong constraints on many signals of supersymmetry. This is beginning to lead to some tension in the idea of supersymmetry as a fully natural solution to the hierarchy problem. However, nonminimal models can evade direct searches, as can models that are somewhat fine-tuned. I will discuss some ways that SUSY can be hiding from us, and how a broader LHC search strategy as well as precision Standard Model measurements and dark matter experiments can explore these hiding places in the future.

Title: The Frontier of the Standard Model
Abstract: Particle physics is at the beginning of an exciting new era. The discovery of the long-awaited Higgs boson completes the framework of the Standard Model, but we remain unsure about what new physics may exist at higher energy scales. The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is about to embark on a new data taking run which will give us unprecedented insight into this question. I will discuss how precision tests of the Standard Model are an excellent way to understand the data from the LHC and uncover new physics. Relevant to Higgs physics, I will show how precise theoretical predictions are critical in improving Higgs coupling measurements. I will close by giving my outlook on where the next several years of the LHC will take us in understanding our microscopic world.

Title: Universal Dynamics from the Conformal Bootstrap
Abstract: Conformal Field Theories (CFTs) play a central role in understanding strongly coupled physics across a wide range of phenomena. One of the most powerful tools for studying them is the Conformal Bootstrap, which in the past several years has seen renewed interest and tremendous progress in its applications. In this talk, we discuss how the Conformal Bootstrap can be used to uncover and prove universal dynamical behavior that is satisfied by all CFTs in some limits, and large classes of them in other limits. Through the Anti-de Sitter/CFT (AdS/CFT) correspondence, these results can be interpreted to imply universal aspects of dynamical behavior of the dual gravitational theories, including locality and the emergence of Newtonian gravity at large distances. For CFTs in two dimensions, we demonstrate how in systems with a large number of degrees of freedom, high energy eigenstates can be shown to create classical backgrounds. This can be directly related to black hole geometries in a semi-classical limit of the gravitational duals, and to a phenomenon known as Eigenstate Thermalization whereby pure states mimic thermal backgrounds in the CFT. Methods for going beyond the semi-classical limit of gravity are discussed.

Title: Geometric picture for scattering amplitudes
Abstract: There has been a growing evidence that the standard formulation of Quantum Field Theory using path integrals and Feynman diagrams fails to explain unexpected simplicity and hidden symmetries of the scattering amplitudes. I show that in a certain gauge theory there exists a radically different picture for amplitudes as volumes of the "Amplituhedron" which is a higher-dimensional generalization of convex polygons. I also comment on an extension of this picture to other cases and some similarities in effective field theories.

Title: New Insights into Cosmic Abundances of Matter and Related Phenomenology
Abstract: I will review prominent puzzles about the cosmic relic abundances of atomic matter and dark matter, and discuss new theoretical ideas/models to address these puzzles. The connection of these theories with new particle physics frontiers such as new forces, Higgs mechanism and supersymmetry will be discussed. I will also demonstrate the rich phenomenological predictions from these theories that can be tested in a variety of experiments such as with neutrino detectors and the Large Hadron Collider (LHC).

Title: Dark Matter in the Age of Data
Abstract: Dark matter is evidence of new physics beyond the Standard Model. There are compelling reasons to expect that the relevant physics will be probed in the current or next-generation experiments. However, taking full advantage of the available data will require a synthesis of results from a wide range of fields. I will present my recent theoretical and phenomenological efforts to connect and improve on the results of dark matter direct detection, indirection detection, LHC physics, and cosmological simulations.

Title: Discovering new particles after the Higgs
Abstract: The discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider marks the culmination of a decades-long hunt for the last ingredient of the Standard Model. At the same time, this discovery has started a new era in the search for more fundamental physics. In this talk, I will discuss two complementary ways to test New Physics beyond the Standard Model: the direct production of new particles at high energy machines, and the search for rare processes and for small deviations from Standard Model expectations at high precision machines. In particular, I will highlight the role of the Higgs boson in shedding light on New Physics, and motivate new searches that can discover otherwise undetected new phenomena. 

Title: String Theory clues for the low - ℓ CMB?
Abstract: Theoretical models of high-scale supersymmetry breaking inspired by String Theory and its low--energy Supergravity suggest a possible mechanism for the onset of inflation. I shall elaborate on their possible relevance for the CMB.

Title: Metals, insulators and momentum dissipation in holography
Abstract: In this talk, I will summarize recent progress into constructing black holes dual to systems with momentum dissipation via the gauge/gravity duality. Applying a small electric field, we can measure their conductivity using linear response. I will describe how the DC conductivity can be expressed in terms of horizon data of the black hole. Scaling properties of the metric and associated bulk matter fields govern the temperature scaling of the DC conductivity, which allows to classify black holes dual to metallic and insulating states. Intriguingly, their DC conductivity separates into two pieces, which seem to be related to momentum dissipation and pair creation respectively. Their boundary interpretation is however not so straightforward.

Title: BIG J
Abstract: The topic of this seminar is the simplification of strongly interacting quantum field theory at large J, where J is the quantum number of a state under some symmetry group such as angular momentum or a global charge. As an example, I will review recent work on the simplification of the worldsheet theory of the QCD string at large angular momentum. In particular we calculate, from first principles, the first sub-leading large J correction to the linear Regge spectrum of the mass-squared of a hadron as a function of spin J, in planar QCD with bosonic quarks. We also discuss work in progress in which we have applied our larger theory of large-J perturbativity to more general problems in quantum field theory, such as the operator spectrum of strongly coupled fixed points in three dimensions.

Title: Making sense of the Generalized Entropy of Gauss-Bonnet Gravity
Abstract: Recently Lewkowycz and Maldacena have given a partial derivation of the Ryu-Takayanagi conjecture by developing a technique for performing the replica trick holographically. Subsequent attempts to apply this technique to higher curvature theories of gravity were partly successful but also produces several puzzles. In this talk I will present a resolution to the problem of so-called "sub-leading divergences" for perturbative Gauss-Bonnet gravity and discuss a related proposal for relaxing the assumption of replica symmetry in Lewkowycz and Maldacena's original derivation.

Title: The AdS_3/CFT_2 Avatar of the (Little) Hierarchy Problem
Abstract: There is an avatar of the (little) hierarchy problem of the MSSM in 3-dimensional supersymmetry. We propose a solution to this problem in AdS3 based on the AdS/CFT correspondence. The bulk theory is a supergravity theory in which U(1) × U(1) R-symmetry is gauged by Chern-Simons fields. The bulk theory is deformed by a boundary term quadratic in the gauge fields. It breaks SUSY completely and sources an exactly marginal operator in the dual CFT. SUSY breaking is communicated by gauge interactions to bulk scalar fields and their spinor superpartners. Since the R-charges of scalar and spinor differ, this generates a SUSY breaking shift of their masses. The Ward identity facilitates the calculation of these mass shifts to any desired order in the strength of the deformation. Moduli fields are massless R-neutral bulk scalars with vanishing potential in the undeformed theory. These properties are maintained to all orders in the deformation despite the fact that moduli couple in the bulk to loops of R-charged fields. The generalization to AdS5 is possible which may have implication to Randall-Sundrum model.

Title: Freeze-in Dark Matter
Abstract: In the freeze-out paradigm of dark matter the dark matter is initially in thermal equilibrium and its abundance evolves with its equilibrium distribution until it decouples from the thermal bath. In models of freeze-in dark matter it is supposed that the dark matter number density is initially negligible, but over time an abundance suitable to match the relic density is produced due to interactions in the thermal bath involving a suppressed portal operator. For the dark matter abundance to be initially negligible, and subsequently set by the freeze-in mechanism (rather than freeze-out), the hidden sector must be thermally decoupled from the visible sector bath at all times, which implies that the portal operators must be extremely small. The thermal history is drastically different depending on whether the portal operator is due to both renormalisable and non-renormalisable operators, and I will discuss both scenarios.

Title: New Exact Results in Supersymmetry in Two and Four Dimensions
Abstract: Starting from a brief review of early exact results in super-Yang-Mills (such as beta functions in N=1) I discuss recent developments of these ideas in newly emerged models (e.g. particular heterotic 2D sigma models) and in newly emerged applications in 4D super Yang-Mills.

Title: On the flavor composition of the high-energy neutrinos in IceCube
Abstract: The IceCube experiment has recently released 3 years of data of the first ever detected high energy neutrinos, which are consistent with an extraterrestrial origin. In this talk I will discuss the compatibility of this observation with possible combinations of neutrino flavors and its implications.

Title: Holographic momentum dissipation and effective theories oftransport
Abstract: Holography allows us to study the transport properties of strongly interacting systems with no quasiparticles, which could be the relevant description of some experimentally accessible materials. I will give an overview of holographic toy models of states like this, in which momentum is not conserved and thus energy and charge transport are non-trivial. I will then describe in detail how the transport properties of the simplest example, at long time and distance scales, can easily be understood in terms of two straightforward, non-holographic effective theories, one of which is valid when momentum dissipates slowly, and one when it dissipates quickly.

Title: Deconfinement transition as black hole formation by the condensation of QCD strings
Abstract: We argue that the deconfinement transition of large-N Yang-Mills theory is the condensation of very long and self-intersecting chromo-electric flux strings (QCD string), which is analogous to the formation of a black hole in string theory. We do this by using lattice gauge theory and matrix models. As evidence, we derive an analytic formula for the deconfinement temperature in the strong coupling limit and confirm it numerically. Dual gravity descriptions interpreted in this manner should make it possible to understand the details of the formation of black holes in terms of fundamental strings. We argue that very simple matrix models capture the essence of the formation of black holes.

Title: A twistor string for the ABJ(M) theory
Abstract: By realizing the twistor space of 3d Minkowski space as a hypersurface in higher dimensions we construct a twistor string theory whose single-trace tree-level scattering amplitudes reproduce those of the ABJM theory. The multi-trace tree-level amplitudes describe ABJM theory coupled to conformal supergravity. A byproduct of this construction is the indication that there exist more N=6 conformal field theories in three dimensions.

Title: Direct Extraction of Multiloop Integral Coefficients
Abstract: Multiloop amplitudes can be written in a basis of integrals. We show how to compute the coefficients using maximal unitarity cuts and computational algebraic geometry. The coefficients are expressed as products of tree-level amplitudes integrated over multidimensional contours. The method is applied to planar and nonplanar two- and three-loop examples in generic gauge theories. We also discuss generalized cuts of integrals with higher powers of propagators.

Title: String Geometry Beyond the Torus
Abstract: Besides propagating in target space like a point particle, a closed string is also able to wind around non-contractible circles. A direct consequence thereof is T-duality. In the textbook example, it identifies the closed string dynamics on a large and a small circle by interchanging its winding and momentum modes. Patching a background by such dualities clearly goes beyond the notion of conventional geometry. However, there are extensive efforts to embed them into a framework called string geometry. It provides access to a vast number of new backgrounds with intriguing phenomenology, like e.g. the possibility to obtain de Sitter vacua. Double Field Theory (DFT) is the most promising approach to describe these backgrounds and their properties. But still, it is closely related to the torus. I will present a theory based on Closed String Field theory starting from a Wess-Zumino-Witten model which goes beyond the torus. It plays an important role in clarifying the recent confusion about different constraints in DFT. Furthermore it allows to uplift a large class of new backgrounds to string theory. These backgrounds are not T-dual to any geometric ones.

Title: Checkerboard black branes and inhomogeneity in AdS/CFT
Abstract: I will present asymptotically AdS black brane solutions for which all continuous spatial symmetries of the brane are spontaneously broken. Through holography these solutions describe ordered phases of a CFT whose charge and current densities exhibit a checkerboard pattern. I will also discuss the situation where these symmetries are explicitly broken by deformations of the CFT, emphasising physical and technical differences. Some black holes of this latter type can be constructed analytically and are shown to capture the key physical property of finite DC conductivity in the dual field theory.

Title: On the connection of the Dark and Visible Sectors
Abstract: We discuss several possible dark matter signals and the status of the so called WIMP miracle. Later, we perform a detailed study of the Z' and Higgs portals using a generic parametrization and exploit the complementarity among collider, direct and indirect dark matter detection in the WIMP mass range to outline the excluded versus still viable parameter space regions of those frameworks.

Title: An Exact, Finite, Gauge-Invariant, Non-Perturbative Model of QCD Renormalization
Abstract: A previous formulation of non-perturbative, gauge-invariant, realistic QCD was able to sum over all gluons exchanged between any two quark lines, including cubic and quartic gluon interactions. Such an infinite numbers of exchanged gluons takes the form of one Gluon Bundle exchanged between those quark lines; Feynman graphs of individual gluon exchange are then replaced by Bundle Graphs, linking quarks and large numbers of closed quark loops, conveniently defined by a functional cluster expansion. Such combinations now form the essential set of "radiative corrections" of this non-perturbative formation of QCD.
A particular choice of renormalization, within the simplifications provided by the non-perturbative property of Effective Locality, leads to a completely finite, renormalized theory of QCD, in which all correlation functions can, in principle, be defined and calculated. In this Model of renormalization, only the Bundle chain-Graphs of the cluster expansion are non-zero. All Bundle graphs connecting to closed quark loops of whatever complexity, and attached to a single quark line, provide no 'self-energy' to that quark line, and hence no effective renormalization. However, the exchange of momentum between one quark line and another, involves only the cluster-expansion's chain graphs, and yields a set of contributions which can be summed and provide a finite color-charge renormalization that can be incorporated into all other QCD processes. An application to HE elastic pp scattering is now underway.

Title: Quantum spectral curve of N=4 SYM and its BFKL limit
Abstract: N=4 Super-Yang Mills in planar limit is the only exactly solvable theory in 4 space-time dimensions. This potentially gives a possibility to compute any physically interesting quantities, such as anomalous dimensions, correlators, Wilson loops, scattering amplitudes, at any strength of the 't Hooft coupling. Solvability is possible due to AdS/CFT duality and a hidden integrability property. The most advanced tools of computation, known as the AdS/CFT Y-system/TBA, are developed for the spectrum of anomalous dimensions. We present a new, the most concise and efficient Riemann-Hilbert system of spectral equations -- Qantum Spectral Curve (QSC). After explaining the basic structure of QSC and its origins, we present some results of computations of anomalous dimensions: Konishi dimension at any coupling (numerically), its strong coupling expansion and weak coupling expansion (9-loops!), as well as the Balitsky-Fadin-Kuraev-Lipatov limit of QSC reproducing the BFKL pomeron spectrum.

Title: A Magic Pyramid of Supergravities
Abstract: There are four normed division algebras: the real numbers, the complex numbers, the quaternions and the octonions. The division algebras provide a natural framework for describing super Yang-Mills theories in 3, 4, 6 and 10 spacetime dimensions D. Using the idea of 'gravity as the square of gauge theory' I will demonstrate that by 'squaring' D=3 super Yang-Mills theories written over the division algebras we obtain supergravity theories whose global symmetry groups fill out a beautiful set of Lie algebras known to mathematicians as the 'magic square'. Squaring D=4,6,10 theories uncovers a new structure: a magic pyramid of supergravity theories whose base is the magic square. 

Title: Exact results for the entanglement entropy and the energy radiated by a quark
Abstract: In this talk, I will present some results on the entanglement entropy due to the insertion of a Wilson loop in N=4 SYM and ABJM and will talk about the radiation emitted by a quark in these theories.

Title: The Preon Sector of the SLq(2) Model and the Binding Problem
Abstract: There is currently suggestive evidence that the leptons, neutrinos, and quarks might be composite, but it is not known how the preons might be bound. We discuss some possibilities allowed by the SLq(2) extension of the standard model.

Title: Beyond Collisionless Dark Matter
Abstract: Dark matter self-interactions have important implications for the distributions of dark matter in the Universe, from dwarf galaxies to galaxy clusters. In this talk, we present benchmark models that illustrate characteristic features of dark matter that is self-interacting through a new light mediator. These models have self-interactions large enough to change dark matter densities in the centers of galaxies in accord with observations, while remaining compatible with large-scale structure data and all astrophysical observations such as halo shapes and the Bullet Cluster. These observations favor a mediator mass in the 1-100 MeV range and large regions of this parameter space are accessible to direct detection experiments.

Title: Heavy Hidden Hooperon
Abstract: We present simplified models for the galactic center gamma-ray excess where Dirac dark matter annihilates into pairs or triplets of on-shell bosonic mediators to the Standard Model. These annihilation modes allow the dark matter mass to be heavier than those of conventional effective theories for the gamma-ray excess. Because the annihilation rate is set by the dark matter--mediator coupling, the Standard Model coupling can be made parametrically small to 'hide' the dark sector by suppressing direct detection and collider signals. We explore the viability of these models as a thermal relic and on the role of the mediators for controlling the gamma-ray spectral shape. We comment on ultraviolet completions for these simplified models and novel options for Standard Model final states.

Title: The cosmic ray positron excess: the revenge of orthodoxy
Abstract: Weakly interacting and massive particles, dubbed WIMPs, have been suggested as plausible candidates to the astronomical dark matter (DM). Should these putative species exist, they would continuously annihilate or decay within the Milky Way halo and yield rare antimatter particles - such as antiprotons or positrons.
The discovery, and recent confirmation by AMS, of a cosmic ray lepton anomaly has raised the tremendous hope that WIMPs were not just a fantasy. Alas, the dust has now settled down and we are still hunting for them. I will review the observations and explain why they point towards the presence of an additional component of primary positrons on top of the expected background. Interpreting that excess as a smoking gun evidence for WIMPs is very tempting. However, that possibility has by now faded away on the basis of arguments which I will discuss. The positron excess is probably related to conventional astrophysical processes. I will conclude my talk by reviewing two of them - pulsars and spallations at the acceleration sites.

Title: The Volkov-Akulov-Starobinsky Supergravity
Abstract: We present a supergravity theory with a single chiral multiplet coupled to the Volkov-Akulov action.The bosonic sector of the resulting theory is dual to a higher derivative gravity theory coupled to an axial vector field which only propagates an additional degree of freedom.

Title: The possible origins of Sub-PeV to PeV neutrinos observed by the IceCube
Abstract: In addition to the two ~1 PeV neutrinos, the IceCube Collaboration recently reported a detection of 26 neutrino candidates at energies from 30 TeV to 250 TeV, implying a confidence level of 4.3\sigma over the atmospheric background. What are the possible origins for those observed neutrinos? Gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) have been proposed as one of the potential sources for ultra-high energy cosmic rays with energy up to > 10^20 eV. The proton interactions with the fireball photons will produce a burst of neutrinos with energies of∼ PeV. In another possibility, both the star formation rates and the gas surface mass densities of ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) are very high, implying a high hypernova rate and an efficient energy conversion of energetic protons. These energetic protons lose a good fraction of their energy through proton-proton collision when ejected into very dense interstellar media, and as a result, produce high-energy neutrinos (≤5PeV). However, those two groups of sources cannot produce neutrinos with enough flux to explain the observations.We then present possibilities to interpret the current neutrino data with two-component spectrum model. In one possible model, the two components are pp collision component and photomeson interaction component, for example, protons accelerated by supernovae interacting with protons in environments, and protons accelerated by GRBs or AGNs interacting with photons emitted by GRBs or AGNs. A possibility that those neutirnos are contributed by sources both in the Galaxy and in the external galaxies are also discussed. 

Title: Single-field Inflationary Models in Supergravity
Abstract: After reviewing the well known fact that "Starobinsky" R+ f(R) models of inflation are equivalent to standard single-scalar slow-roll theories, in which the inflaton VEV undergoes a large excursion, we show how to embed R+f(R) models in supergravity, in an efficient way, using supergravity's "new minimal" formulation. We also discuss how supergravity can improve the naturalness of such models. 

Title: Supersymmetry constraints on type II effective actions
Abstract: I shall review some properties of the low energy effective action in type II string theory in various dimensions. We will see that supersymmetry implies that the BPS protected threshold functions satisfy to tensorial differential equations on the scalar manifold which solutions define minimal unitary representations of the U duality groups. I will focus on properties of these solutions and their implications in supergravity, i.e. anomalies and divergences.

Title: Lifshitz geometries from backreacted Wilson lines
Abstract: Low temperature physics of QCD-like theories at finite density is one of the harder regimes to probe with conventional techniques. I will consider the introduction of a large density of heavy quarks or baryons into N=4 Super Yang-Mills theory, and the dual description in terms of the backreaction of D5/F1 sources in AdS5xS5. The geometries thus obtained are supersymmetric and exhibit Lifshitz scaling in the infrared with a specific dynamical exponent.

Title: Finite-size Corrections to Fermi's Golden Rule

Title: Evaluating Feynman integrals algebraically
Abstract: I will present a new method for thinking about and for computing loop integrals based on differential equations. All required information is obtained by algebraic means and is encoded in a small set of simple quantities that I will describe. I will present various applications, including results for all planar master integrals  that are needed for the computation of NNLO QCD corrections to the production of two off-shell vector bosons in hadron collisions.

Title: Making Sense of the XYZ Mesons using the Born-Oppenheimer Approximation
Abstract: The XYZ mesons are unexpected mesons containing a heavy quark and antiquark that have been discovered in the last decade.  Their number has grown to about two dozen.  Many of them are surprisingly narrow, and several are electrically-charged tetraquark mesons.  Their existence presents a serious challenge to our understanding  of the spectrum of QCD.  I will explain how the Born-Oppenheimer approximation can be used to begin to understand the XYZ mesons.

Title: A Color-kinematic Duality Triptych
Abstract: Color-kinematic duality is a twin conjecture about algebraic symmetry structures in run-of-the-mill perturbative gauge and gravity theory. Parts of the conjecture have been proven, mainly at the tree level. This talk is about a triptych of questions: Is it true? Is it useful? Is it enough? For the first I'll give some evidence the conjecture is true at one loop. For the second I'll show how you can use it to compute up to four loop form factors in a simple way. For the third I'll explore how it can be used heuristically to post- and predict divergences in gravity theories. Along the way I'll tell you how to invert non-invertible matrices, how to generate up to eight loop Feynman graphs and how hard four loop integrals can be.

Title: Shedding New Light on Sterile Neutrinos
Abstract: Theories with sterile neutrinos are well-motivated extensions to the Standard Model that can account for the observed dark matter abundance, the baryon-antibaryon asymmetry and neutrino masses. The recent detection of a possible X-ray line "smoking gun" of sterile neutrino dark matter decay gives further impetus to their study. I give an overview of the physical mechanisms responsible for the production of dark matter and the baryon asymmetry with sub-weak-scale sterile neutrinos, showing that substantial tuning/alignment of model parameters is necessary for a minimal model with three right-handed neutrinos to correctly account for either phenomenon. Motivated by this observation, I show how new interactions coupled to Standard Model fields can substantially enhance the baryon asymmetry and dark matter abundances, obviating the need for any tuning among model parameters, and providing new experimental probes of models with implications for the cosmology of sterile neutrinos.

Title: Holographic Entanglement Entropy and Gravitational Anomalies
Abstract: A quantum field theory can suffer from gravitational anomalies which render its stress tensor non-conserved at the quantum level, e.g. a 2d CFT with different left and right central charges. Such a 2d CFT has a dual gravitational description given by topologically massive gravity. I will discuss work in progress towards the computation of entanglement entropy in such a theory from its gravity dual, and explain how the anomaly has the effect of broadening the Ryu-Takayanagi minimal worldline into a "ribbon" whose twisting carries nontrivial information.

Title: The Generalized Second Law as a Quantum Singularity Theorem
Abstract: In classical general relativity, the Penrose singularity theorem requires singularities to appear in certain circumstances. One of the key assumptions is that matter obeys the null energy condition.  However, quantum fields are known to violate this condition.  Does that mean that the singularities can be evaded?  I will argue that the answer is no.  Singularities are still inevitable in quantum contexts if, instead of an energy condition, we make the assumption that all horizons obey the second law of thermodynamics.

Title: The Amplituhedron
Abstract: In this talk we show that scattering amplitudes in N=4 SYM can be understood as volumes of "The Amplituhedron", a natural generalization of convex polygons into the Grassmannian. This invariant definition of the amplitude makes no reference to the usual concepts of quantum field theory. All fundamental properties of the amplitude, such as Unitarity, Locality follow from positivity. Any representation of the amplitude can be then understood as a particular triangulation of this object.

Title: Transplanckian collisions of particles, strings and branes: what can (have) we learn(ed)?
Abstract: I will give an overview on what we have learned so far on transplanckian-energy collisions of particles, strings, and branes, mention some open problems, and speculate on the lessons we may hope to draw in the near future from these gedanken experiments.

Title: Minimal Models for Supergravity Inflation
Abstract: Recent results from Planck mission seem to indicate simple models for the inflaton potential as best candidates for inflationary cosmology. Among them the Starobinsky model based on R+R2 gravity emerges as a natural candidate with the inflaton identified with the "scalaron" degree of freedom. In this seminar I describe minimal(single field)inflation as suggested by the embedding of such a model in higher derivative Supergravity.

Title: A New Avenue to Charged Higgs Discovery in Multi-Higgs Doublet Models
Abstract: Current charged Higgs searches at the LHC consider only tau nu, cs, tb final states. The result can be modified a lot in presence of a light neutral Higgs which can be produced from the decay of the charged Higgs, associated with a W boson. We suggest a new method investigating the charged Higgs even in such cases, by further assuming the existence of a heavy neutral Higgs which can produce the charged Higgs associated with a W boson. The SM Higgs search of the WW decay mode can provide interesting constraints in the parameter region.

Title: Multi-loop unitarity via computational algebraic geometry
Abstract: This talk is about multi-loop scattering amplitudes calculation via computational algebraic geometry methods: (1) Integrand reduction by the Groebner basis (2) Maximal unitarity by multivariate residues. We demonstrate these methods by our new analytic results on two-loop five-point helicity planar amplitude in QCD and three-loop triple box diagram in gauge theories.

Title: Gravitational Interactions of Higher-Spin Fermions
Abstract: We investigate the cubic interactions of a massless higher-spin fermion with gravity in flat space and present covariant 2-s-s vertices, compatible with the gauge symmetries of the system, preserving parity. This explicit construction relies on the BRST deformation scheme that assumes locality and Poincaré invariance. Consistent nontrivial cubic deformations exclude minimal gravitational coupling and may appear only with a number of derivatives constrained in a given range. Derived in an independent manner, our results do agree with those obtained from the light-cone formulation or inspired by string theory. We also show that none of the Abelian vertices deform the gauge transformations, while all the non-Abelian ones are obstructed in a local theory beyond the cubic order.

Title: Kerr-AdS analogue of triple point and solid/liquid/gas phase transition
Abstract: We study the thermodynamic behavior of doubly-spinning d=6 Kerr-anti de Sitter black holes in the canonical ensemble of fixed angular momenta, interpreting the cosmological constant as thermodynamic pressure. We find, dependent on the ratio of the two angular momenta q=J2/J1, qualitatively different interesting phenomena known from the "every day thermodynamics of simple substances." In particular, in a certain range of q the system displays the presence of a large/intermediate/small black hole phase transition with one triple and two critical points. This behavior is reminiscent of the solid/liquid/gas phase transition except that the coexistence line of small and intermediate black holes does not continue for an arbitrary value of pressure (similar to the solid/liquid coexistence line) but rather terminates at one of the critical points.

Title: When will the supernova neutrinos be detected, and what will they tell us?
Abstract: The Diffuse Supernova Neutrino Background (DSNB) provides an immediate opportunity to study the emission of MeV thermal neutrinos from core-collapse supernovae. The DSNB is a powerful probe of supernova and neutrino physics, but also requires detailed knowledge of the supernova rate history. In this talk, we will investigate the supernova rate using multiple astrophysical observables, and quantify the effects of various input physics. We will evaluate the detectability of the DSNB and discuss implications for supernova studies.

Title: The Preon Sector of the SLq(2) (Knot) Model
Abstract: We describe a Lagrangian defining the preon sector of the knot model. The preons are the elements of the fundamental representation of SLq(2), and unexpectedly agree with the preons conjectured by Harari and by Shupe. The leptons, neutrinos, up and down quarks, described as j=3/2 representations, and the electroweak vectors, described as j=3 representations, of SLq(2) have precisely the preon composition required by the schemes of Harari and of Shupe. The coupling constants and masses required by the preon Lagrangian introduce form factors that are simple functions of the parameters defining the knot model. As previously shown, the knot model has similarly provided a possible parametrization of the masses and electroweak coupling constants (Cabbibo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix) of the standard model. There is an alternative formulation of the kinematics permitting possible additional isotopic partners of the quarks and neutrinos.

Title: New CMB signatures of the string landscape
Abstract: Our local Hubble volume might be contained within a bubble that nucleated in a false vacuum with only two large spatial dimensions. I will analyze bubble collisions in this scenario and show that they generate gravity waves, which are made possible in this context by the reduced symmetry of the global geometry. These gravity waves would produce B-mode polarization in the cosmic microwave background, which could in principle dominate over the inflationary background. I will contextualize this work by reviewing past work on observational signatures of the landscape.

Title: From trees to two loops by maximal unitarity
Abstract: In this talk we take the first steps towards a new framework for computing two-loop amplitudes, based on unitarity rather than Feynman diagrams. In this approach, the two-loop amplitude is first expanded in a basis of integrals. The expansion coefficients are then determined by applying generalized unitarity cuts. We find explicit formulas for the integral coefficients as products of tree-level amplitudes integrated over specific contours in the complex plane, thus allowing the construction of the two-loop amplitude from appropriately defined tree amplitudes. The validity of this method extends to all four-dimensional gauge theories, in particular QCD. This approach is suited for obtaining analytical expressions as well as for numerical implementations.

Title: Ultra-high energy neutrino events at the IceCube and the Glashow resonance
Abstract: The Glashow resonance is a peak of enhanced cross-section for an electron-anti-neutrino of 6.3 PeV energy interacting with an electron and producing a resonant W boson, which further decays into electrons and hadrons producing cascades in a large volume (Km^3) neutrino detector such as the IceCube. We will explore the significance of this narrow bin of energy, generally with respect to ultra-high energy events in the IceCube, and particularly, in view of the two recently observed neutrino events at the PeV energies; we will show that the observation of (or lack of) events at 6.3 PeV energies in the future will allow us to understand several facets of the Ultra-high energy neutrino flux coming, possibly, from extra-galactic sources.

Title: Uncovering Properties of Cosmic Dark Matter through Indirect Detection
Abstract: The indirect, gravitational evidence for dark matter is deep, but an understanding the nature of this matter is a major unsolved problem of modern theoretical physics. If the origin of cosmic dark matter is through thermal production during the big bang, then colliding dark matter particles throughout the cosmos may continue to annihilate today at a low rate, injecting annihilation products into space. Telescopes today are searching for evidence of this annihilation radiation in high energy gamma-rays, neutrinos, and other cosmic rays. In this talk, I will show examples of how different particle physics properties of dark matter affect the intensity spectrum of its annihilation products, and the angular power spectrum of diffuse radiation. I'll focus on gamma-ray and neutrino signals for which there are contributions both from within the galaxy and from all extragalactic annihilations. I will explain the important aspects of dark matter phase space that affect the signals, and discuss some scenarios under which the uncertainties regarding the distribution of dark matter can be constrained if an annihilation signal is detected.

Title: Prospects and Blind Spots for Neutralino Dark Matter
Abstract: Using a simplified model framework, we assess observational limits and discovery prospects for neutralino dark matter, taken here to be a general admixture of bino, wino, and Higgsino. Experimental constraints can be weakened or even nullified in regions of parameter space near 1) purity limits, where the dark matter is mostly bino, wino, or Higgsino, or 2) blind spots, where the relevant couplings of dark matter to the Z or Higgs bosons vanish identically. We analytically identify all blind spots relevant to spin-independent and spin-dependent scattering and show that they arise for diverse choices of relative signs among M_1, M_2, and mu.  At present, XENON100 and IceCube still permit large swaths of viable parameter space, including the well-tempered neutralino. On the other hand, upcoming experiments should have sufficient reach to discover dark matter in much of the remaining parameter space. 

Title: Black Hole formation at the Correspondence Point
Abstract: We study the process of bound state formation in a D-brane collision. We consider two mechanisms for bound state formation.  The first, operative at weak coupling in the worldvolume gauge theory, is pair creation of W-bosons.  The second, operative at strong coupling, corresponds to formation of a large black hole in the dual supergravity.  These two processes agree qualitatively at intermediate coupling, in accord with the correspondence principle of Horowitz and Polchinski.  We show that the size of the bound state and timescale for formation of a bound state agree at the correspondence point.  The timescale involves matching a parametric resonance in the gauge theory to a quasinormal mode in supergravity.

Title: Correlations in Double Parton Scattering
Abstract: Double parton scattering is the process where two partonic collisions take place between the same colliding protons. It offers a window into diparton correlations inside the proton and is a background for some new physics searches at the LHC. I will discuss the formalism for double parton scattering that I helped develop. The initial state is described by double parton distribution functions, and I will discuss their renormalization group evolution, which implies that color correlations and parton-exchange interference contributions are Sudakov suppressed at high energies. In addition, I will provide a first estimate of the other diparton correlations using a bag model of the proton.

Title: Generalizing the assumptions behind the usual interpretation of Dark Matter direct searches
Abstract: The present situation of Dark Matter (DM) direct searches is unclear and of difficult interpretation. In fact, in the standard theoretical scenario usually considered, potential DM signals detected by some experiments are excluded by others. For this reason, a generalization of the usual assumptions behind the standard interpretation is in order.
In this seminar two possible generalizations will be presented. On one hand, the Isospin Violating Dark Matter paradigm will be investigated, in which the assumption of equal interaction between the DM particle with proton and neutron is relaxed. On the other hand, the phenomenology of an electromagnetically neutral DM particle interacting with the photon via a magnetic moment will be explored.
Both these scenarios present very different (and interesting) conclusions respect to the usually assumed DM-matter interaction.

Title: Supergravity from 2 and 3-Algebra Gauge Theory
Abstract: Supergravity scattering amplitudes in general space-time dimension have the remarkable property that they can be constructed out of double copies of Yang-Mills interactions. In three dimensions, they can also be built out of double copies of Chern-Simons-matter interactions. This holds when these gauge theories exhibit a duality between color and kinematics. For Yang-Mills this property implies the existence of a kinematic Lie 2-algebra, and for Chern-Simons-matter this implies a kinematic Lie 3-algebra.

Title: A two measure model of dark energy and dark matter

Title: Non-Abelian Strings in Supersymmetric Yang-Mills
Abstract: I give a broad review of novel phenomena discovered in Yang-Mills theories: non-Abelian strings and confined monopoles. Then I explain how these phenomena allow one to study strong dynamics of gauge theories in four dimensions from two-dimensional models emerging on the string world sheet.

Title: Integrand-level reduction of high-loop scattering amplitudes via computational algebraic geometry

Title: Loops, Trees, and Higgs EFTs

Title: Black Hole Shadows, Photon Rings, and the Event Horizon Telescope Observations

Title: Playing with Topological Defects in 2d
Abstract: Topological defects embody and generalize symmetries and 't Hooft anomalies. Their structure is particularly simple in 2d, and imposes strong constraints on CFTs, TQFTs, and RG flows. In this virtual meeting, I will give a brief overview of this structure, and discuss some bootstrappy applications.

Title: New view on graviton scattering amplitudes
Abstract: I will review some of the recent developments in the calculation of tree-level graviton amplitudes, and I will show some evidence for a completely new approach, which is motivated by the geometric construction of amplitudes in planar N=4 SYM theory.

Title: Quantum extremal islands and the information paradox
Abstract: I will review recent work on applying ideas of holography to the problem of evaporating black holes. I will show that holographic entropy computed via extremizing the generalized entropy realizes the Page curve. These results suggest a new prescription for computing the entanglement entropy of the Hawking radiation whereby new contributions from the interior of the black hole, or what we call "islands", become relevant. I will briefly discuss upcoming work justifying the inclusion of these islands using replica wormholes.

Title: A Kaluza-Klein spectrometer from exceptional field theory
Abstract: In this talk, I will present a powerful new method for computing the Kaluza-Klein spectrum of string theory compactifications. The method utilises exceptional field theory, a rewriting of 10-/11- dimensional supergravity that unifies the metric and p-form degrees of freedom, which has already proven very powerful in constructing consistent truncations. I will show how this formalism allows us to easily compute the Kaluza-Klein spectrum for any vacuum of an N=8 gauged supergravity arising from a consistent truncation. This includes various AdS vacua in 4 and 5 dimensions preserving N = 2, 3 supersymmetry, such as the Khavaev-Pilch-Warner vacuum of 5-d N=8 SUGRA or the Guarino-Jafferis- Varela vacuum of 4-d dyonic ISO(7) SUGRA, or indeed non-supersymmetric AdS vacua.

Title: Stress-testing the Standard Model
Abstract: I will discuss theoretical methods which allow one to test the Standard Model and the mechanism of electroweak symmetry breaking. The curvature of the Higgs manifold can be measured by longitudinal gauge boson scattering. The Standard Model Effective Theory (SMEFT) is used to place constraints on dimension-six operators and BSM physics. Bounds from the muon magnetic moment, electron EDM and mu to e gamma decays place strong constraints on many dimension-six operators. I will also discuss holomorphy in the one- loop running of the dimension-six operators.

Title: N=2 Superconformal field theories from mixed branches and VOAs
Abstract: I will first present an overview of Superconformal Field Theories (SCFTs) focusing particularly on the analysis of the moduli space of vacua of N=2 SCFTs in 4 dimensions. After reviewing the relation of such theories coming with 2d non-unitary conformal theories and the algebraic constraints which follow, I will outline a possible classification scheme. This is mostly based on a recently discovered new structure underling N=2 SCFTs which ties together the corresponding VOA with specific information of the moduli space of vacua, namely the mixed branch geometry and the number of symplectic leaves of the Higgs branch. This in turn might enable a systematic construction of all N=2 SCFTs with a minimal set of inputs.

Title: Lorentz symmetry fractionalizations and dualities in (2+1)d
Abstract: I will introduce a new discrete transformation in quantum field theory with Z2 1-form symmetry, with some applications to boson/fermion dualities in (2+1)d.

Title: Cardy formula for higher dimensional CFT from EFT
Abstract: I'll start by reviewing recent proposals for a Cardy-like formula in 4d and 6d superconformal field theories that governs the universal behavior of the supersymmetric partition function in a high temperature limit. In the special case when the partition function corresponds to the superconformal index, the Cardy formula encodes the high energy asymptotics of the spectrum of supersymmetric operators in the CFT. For theories with a moduli space of vacua, I'll describe how such formula can be proven using the effective field theory on the moduli space. I'll also comment on this result in relation to matching certain global anomalies of the CFT in the EFT.

Title: 2+1 Dimensional Yang-Mills Theory
Abstract: We review some of the remarkable recent progress on the problem of strong coupling in Yang-Mills theory in 2+1 dimensions. We argue for surprising infrared phases that appear at strong coupling and cover some of the existing pieces of evidence for these conjectures. We comment on the relation to some problems in 3+1 dimensional Yang-Mills theory, including the problem of CP violation.

Title: A loopy excursion: from integrands to scattering amplitudes at higher loop order
Abstract: In this talk, I will describe some recent progress on constructing loop integrands (amplitudes before loop integration) based on a refinement of generalized unitarity. In the second part of the talk, I will discuss integrating these integrands. Even though the methods are applicable for a wide variety of theories, I will focus my discussion on the two-loop five- particle amplitudes in N=4 super Yang-Mills theory and N=8 supergravity. At the end, I will mention some interesting physical aspects of these results, including an explicit gauge theory factorization formula at two loops where one of the external particles becomes soft.

Title: Universality in the classical limit of gravitational scattering
Abstract: In this talk I will describe recent progress in calculating the gravitational deflection angle in General Relativity as well as theories with varying amounts of supersymmetry. I will explain how this quantity can be extracted from the large angular momentum limit of four point scattering amplitudes using eikonal or partial wave techniques. I will show through explicit calculation that the classical corrections to the massless angle are universal though third order in Newton's constant, and match an old proposal by Amati, Ciafaloni and Veneziano. Similarly, I will provide some evidence that the same is true in the massive case at high energies. Finally, I will discuss the relevance of these results in the context of Post-Minkowskian (PM) binary hamiltonians with application to LIGO physics.

Title: Maximal supersymmetric Yang-Mills and their holographic duals
Abstract: In this talk I will consider MSYM on spheres up to 7 dimensions. We show that there is nontrivial matching of BPS quantities with their holographic duals. In 7 dimensions we describe a partial resolution of a longstanding puzzle about the holographic dual.

Title: Koszul duality in field theory & holography
Abstract: In this talk we discuss the problem of coupling quantum field theories to topological line defects and explain that it is governed by a central mathematical notion called Koszul duality for associative algebras. We then propose an analogous physical definition of Koszul duality for chiral algebras. We will explain that in the context of (a twisted version of) AdS(3)/CFT(2), in which a chiral algebra naturally arises in the CFT(2), a deformation of this version of Koszul duality can be used to compute algebra OPEs. This talk is based on work in collaboration with K. Costello.

Title: Diabolical points in QFT and quantum lattice models
Abstract: It was shown by von Neumann and Wigner that because of level repulsion in Quantum Mechanics generically one needs to tune three parameters to achieve ground-state degeneracy. Much later it was observed by Michael Berry that the locus where the degeneracy occurs is a monopole for the Berry curvature and thus can be detected by studying the system away from the degenerate locus. Such loci in the parameter space became known as diabolical loci. In this talk I will extend these considerations for Quantum Field Theory and lattice models. The many-body analogs of diabolical loci are topologically protected loci in the phase diagram where a phase transition occurs. Such phase transitions are surrounded by a trivial phase, but nevertheless cannot be removed by any short-distance modification of the theory which does not affect the phase diagram away from the phase transition. One can detect the presence of many-body diabolical loci by studying Wess-Zumino-Witten and related terms in the effective action for the parameters. I will explain a conjectural classification of diabolical loci in an arbitrary number of dimensions. I will also explain how to compute Wess-Zumino-Witten terms for lattice models using the approach previously proposed by Kitaev.

Title: Anomalous Dimensions from Thermal AdS Partition Functions
Abstract: We develop an efficient method for computing thermal partition functions of weakly coupled scalar fields in AdS. We consider quartic contact interactions and show how to evaluate the relevant two-loop vacuum diagrams without performing any explicit AdS integration, the key step being the use of Kallen-Lehmann type identities. This leads to a simple method for extracting double-trace anomalous dimensions in any spacetime dimension, recovering known first-order results in a streamlined fashion.

